---
title: Apache Accumulo 1.8.1
archived_critical: true
redirect_from: /release_notes/1.8.1.html
---

Apache Accumulo 1.8.1 is a maintenance release on the 1.8 version branch. This
release contains changes from more then 40 issues, comprised of bug-fixes,
performance improvements, build quality improvements, and more. See
[JIRA][JIRA_181] for a complete list.


Below are resources for this release:

* [User Manual][user_manual]
* [Javadocs][javadocs]
* [Examples][examples]

In the context of Accumulo's [Semantic Versioning][semver] [guidelines][api],
this is a "minor version". This means that new APIs have been created, some
deprecations may have been added, but no deprecated APIs have been removed.
Code written against 1.7.x should work against 1.8.0 -- binary compatibility
has been preserved with one exception of an already-deprecated Mock Accumulo
utility class. As always, the Accumulo developers take API compatibility
very seriously and have invested much time to ensure that we meet the promises set forth to our users.

## Major Changes

### Problem with scans right after minor compaction

A bug was found when 2 or more concurrent scans run on a tablet that
has just undergone minor compaction. The minor compaction thread
writes the in-memory map to a local temporary rfile and tries to
switch the current iterators to use it instead of the native map. The
iterator code in the scan thread may also switch itself to use the local
temporary rfile it if notices it before the minor compaction threads
performs the switch. The bug happened shortly after the switch when
one of the iterator threads will get a NegativeArraySizeException.
See [ACCUMULO-4483][ACCUMULO_4483] for more info.

### Tablet Server Performance Improvement

[ACCUMULO-4458][ACCUMULO_4458] mitigated some contention on the Hadoop 
configuration instance backing the XML configs read for SiteConfiguration.  
This should improve overall Tablet Server performance.

### Synchronization issue with deep copies of sources

Deep copies of iterator sources were not thread safe and threw
exceptions, mostly down in the ZlibDecompressor library.  The real bug
was in the BoundedRangeFileInputStream.  The read() method
synchronizes on the underlying FSDataInputStream, however the
available() method did not.   See [ACCUMULO-4391][ACCUMULO_4391].

### System permission bug in Thrift Proxy

The Accumulo Proxy lacked support for the following system permissions:

* System.CREATE_NAMESPACE
* System.DROP_NAMESPACE
* System.ALTER_NAMESPACE
* System.OBTAIN_DELEGATION_TOKEN

Ticket is [ACCUMULO-4519][ACCUMULO_4519].

### Shell compaction file selection options can block

The block happens when the tablet lock is held.  The tablet lock is
meant to protect changes to the tablets internal metadata, and
blocking operations should not occur while this lock is held.  The
compaction command has options to select files based on some
criteria, some of which required blocking operations.  This issue is
fixed in [ACCUMULO-4572][ACCUMULO_4572].

### HostRegexTableLoadBalancer used stale information

The HostRegexTableLoadBalancer maintains an internal mapping of tablet
server pools and tablet server status. It was updated at a
configurable interval initially as an optimization. Unfortunately it
had the negative side effect of providing the assignment and balance
operations with stale information.  This lead to a constant shuffling
of tablets.  The configuration property was removed so that
assign/balance methods get updated information every time.  See
[ACCUMULO-4576][ACCUMULO_4576]. 

### Modify TableOperations online to check for table state 

The table operations online operation executes as a fate
operation. If a transaction lock for the table is currently held,
this operation will block even if no action is needed. 
[ACCUMULO-4574][ACCUMULO_4574] changes the behavior of the online
operation to a NOOP if the table is already in the requested state.
This returns immediately without queuing a fate operation.

## Other Notable Changes

* [ACCUMULO-4488][ACCUMULO_4488] Fix gap in user manual on Kerberos for clients
* [ACCUMULO-2724][ACCUMULO_2724] CollectTabletStats had multiple -t parameter
* [ACCUMULO-4431][ACCUMULO_4431] Log what random is chosen for a tserver.
* [ACCUMULO-4494][ACCUMULO_4494] Include column family seeks in the Iterator Test Harness 
* [ACCUMULO-4549][ACCUMULO_4549] Remove duplicate init functions in TabletBalancer
* [ACCUMULO-4467][ACCUMULO_4467] Random Walk broken because of unmet dependency on commons-math
* [ACCUMULO-4578][ACCUMULO_4578] Cancel compaction FATE operation does not release namespace lock 
* [ACCUMULO-4505][ACCUMULO_4505] Shell still reads accumulo-site.xml when using Zookeeper CLI options 
* [ACCUMULO-4535][ACCUMULO_4535] HostRegexTableLoadBalancer fails with NullPointerException 
* [ACCUMULO-4575][ACCUMULO_4575] Concurrent table delete operations leave orphan fate transaction locks 

## Upgrading

Upgrades from 1.7 to 1.8 are possible with little effort as no changes were made at the data layer and RPC changes
were made in a backwards-compatible way. The recommended way is to stop Accumulo 1.7, perform the Accumulo upgrade to
1.8, and then start 1.8. Like previous versions, after 1.8 is started on a 1.7 instance, a one-time upgrade will
happen by the Master which will prevent a downgrade back to 1.7. Upgrades are still one way. Upgrades from versions
prior to 1.7 to 1.8 should follow the below path to 1.7 and then perform the upgrade to 1.8 -- direct upgrades to 1.8
for versions other than 1.7 are untested.

Existing configuration files from 1.7 should be compared against the examples provided in 1.8. The 1.7 configuration
files should all function with 1.8 code, but you will likely want to include changes found in the 
[1.8.0 release notes][1.8.0_release_notes] and these release notes for 1.8.1.

For upgrades from prior to 1.7, follow the upgrade instructions to 1.7 first.

## Testing

Each unit and functional test only runs on a single node, while the RandomWalk
and Continuous Ingest tests run on any number of nodes. *Agitation* refers to
randomly restarting Accumulo processes and Hadoop Datanode processes, and, in
HDFS High-Availability instances, forcing NameNode failover.

{: #release_notes_testing .table }
| OS/Environment                                                             | Hadoop               | Nodes | ZooKeeper        | HDFS HA | Tests                                        |
|----------------------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|-------|------------------|---------|----------------------------------------------|
| CentOS7/openJDK1.8.0\_121/EC2; 1 m3.xlarge leader, 8 d2.xlarge workers     | 2.7.3                | 9     | 3.4.9            | No      | 24 HR Continuous Ingest without Agitation.  |
| CentOS7/openJDK1.8.0\_121/EC2; 1 m3.xlarge leader, 8 d2.xlarge workers     | 2.7.3                | 9     | 3.4.9            | No      | 24 HR Continuous Ingest with Agitation.     |

[JIRA_181]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=12312121&version=12335830
[api]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/blob/rel/1.8.1/README.md#api
[semver]: http://semver.org
[ACCUMULO_4483]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4483
[ACCUMULO_4458]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4458
[ACCUMULO_4391]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4391
[ACCUMULO_4519]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4519
[ACCUMULO_4572]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4572
[ACCUMULO_4576]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4576
[ACCUMULO_4574]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4574
[ACCUMULO_4488]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4488
[ACCUMULO_2724]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-2724
[ACCUMULO_4431]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4431
[ACCUMULO_4494]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4494
[ACCUMULO_4549]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4549
[ACCUMULO_4467]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4467
[ACCUMULO_4578]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4578
[ACCUMULO_4505]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4505
[ACCUMULO_4575]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4575
[ACCUMULO_4535]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/ACCUMULO-4535
[sample]: {{ site.baseurl }}/1.8/examples/sample
[1.8.0_release_notes]: {{ site.baseurl }}/release/accumulo-1.8.0/
[user_manual]: {{ site.baseurl }}/1.8/accumulo_user_manual.html
[javadocs]: {{ site.baseurl }}/1.8/apidocs
[examples]: {{ site.baseurl }}/1.8/examples

