---
title: Apache Accumulo 1.9.3
draft: true
---

Apache Accumulo 1.9.3 contains bug fixes for ~summary of bugs here~.
Users of any previous version of 1.8 or 1.9 are encouraged to upgrade
~immediately or specify recommended timeline~.

* [User Manual][user_manual] - In-depth developer and administrator documentation
* [Javadocs][javadoc] - Accumulo 1.9 API
* [Examples][examples] - Code with corresponding readme files that give step by
  step instructions for running example code

## Notable Changes

### Fix ArrayOutOfBounds error when new files are created (affects all previous versions)

Accumulo maintains a 1-up counter to keep file names and other identifiers
unique. This counter is padded with 0 characters when used in file names. If
the counter becomes sufficiently large, the padding code in versions prior to
1.9.3 causes an out of bounds error.

Most users will not be affected by this bug, since it requires the counter to
be very large before the error would be seen. Situations which might cause the
counter to get very large include: having a very old Accumulo cluster that has
been running for many years, having a very large cluster, having a cluster that
writes many files very quickly for long periods of time, having altered the
current value of the counter in ZooKeeper, or if you experience a bug which
causes the counter value to skip ahead very rapidly.

If you wish to check to see if you are at risk of being impacted by this bug,
examine the name of RFiles recently created in your system. If you have one or
more padded 0 characters (after an initial letter), as in I000zy98.rf or
I0123abc.rf, you are probably at low risk from this bug.

This issue was fixed in pull request [#562]

### ~Another notable item here~ (affects ~versions~)

More description here. This was fixed in [#NUM].

## Other Changes

* [GitHub] - List of issues tracked on GitHub corresponding to this release
* [1.9.2 release notes][prev_notes] - Release notes showing changes in the previous release

## Upgrading

View the [Upgrading Accumulo documentation][upgrade] for guidance.

## Testing

* (Example) All ITs passed with Hadoop 3.0.0 (hadoop.profile=3)
* (Example) All ITs passed with Hadoop 2.6.4 (hadoop.profile=2)
* (Example) Ran 3 continuous ingesters successfully for 24 hours on a 10 node cluster
  with agitation and pausing. Verification for all 3 tests was successful.
* (Example) Ran continuous ingest for 24 hours and verified without agitation on a 10
  node cluster.
* (Example) Tested [Apache Fluo][fluo] build and ITs passed against this version.
* (Example) Ran a single-node cluster with [Uno] and created a table, ingested data,
  flushed, compacted, scanned, and deleted the table.

[#562]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/issues/562
[GitHub]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/issues?q=label%3Av1.9.3
[Uno]: https://github.com/apache/fluo-uno
[examples]: {{ site.baseurl }}/1.9/examples/
[fluo]: https://fluo.apache.org
[javadoc]: {{ site.baseurl }}/1.9/apidocs/
[prev_notes]: {{ site.baseurl }}/release/accumulo-1.9.2/
[upgrade]: {{ site.baseurl }}/docs/2.x/administration/upgrading
[user_manual]: {{ site.baseurl }}/1.9/accumulo_user_manual.html
