---
title: Apache Accumulo 1.9.1
archived_critical: true
---

Apache Accumulo 1.9.1 contains bug fixes for a critical data loss bug. Users of
1.8.0, 1.8.1, or 1.9.0 are encouraged to upgrade immediately.

* [User Manual][user_manual] - In-depth developer and administrator documentation
* [Javadocs][javadoc] - Accumulo 1.9 API
* [Examples][examples] - Code with corresponding readme files that give step by
  step instructions for running example code

## Notable Changes

### Fixes for Critical WAL Data Loss Bugs (affects versions 1.8.0-1.9.0)

Accumulo 1.9.1 contains multiple bug fixes for write ahead log recovery. Write
ahead log recovery is the process of restoring data that was in memory when a
tablet server died. These bugs could lead to data loss and are present in
1.8.0, 1.8.1, and 1.9.0. Because the bugs can negatively impact Accumulo's
metadata table, **even users that mainly use bulk import may be affected**. It
is **strongly** recommended that anyone using 1.8.0 or greater upgrade
immediately. For more information see issues [#441] and [#449]. These issues
were fixed in pull request [#443] and [#458].

The only users who would not be affected by these bugs would be users already
running Accumulo without the recommended write-ahead logs enabled at all
(durability: none), including for the metadata tables. Such users are already
risking data loss when a server fails, but are not subject to any additional
risk from these bugs, which occur during automated recovery from such failures.

## Some WAL recovery files were not being properly cleaned up

A less serious bug than the above critical bugs was discovered and fixed,
pertaining to write-ahead log recovery. This bug involved recovery files not
being removed properly when no longer required and was fixed in [#432].

## Other Changes

* [GitHub] - List of issues tracked on GitHub corresponding to this release
* [1.9.0 release notes][1.9.0_notes] - Release notes showing changes in the previous release, 1.9.0

## Upgrading

View the [Upgrading Accumulo documentation][upgrade] for guidance.

## Testing

Continuous ingest with agitation and all integration test were run against this
version. Continuous ingest was run with 9 nodes for 24 hours followed by a
successful verification. The integration tests were run against both Hadoop
2.6.4 and Hadoop 3.0.0.

[#432]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/issues/432
[#441]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/issues/441
[#443]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/issues/443
[#449]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/issues/449
[#458]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/issues/458
[1.9.0_notes]: {{ site.baseurl }}/release/accumulo-1.9.0/
[GitHub]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/issues?q=project%3Aapache%2Faccumulo%2F5
[examples]: {{ site.baseurl }}/1.9/examples/
[javadoc]: {{ site.baseurl }}/1.9/apidocs/
[upgrade]: {{ site.baseurl }}/docs/2.x/administration/upgrading
[user_manual]: {{ site.baseurl }}/1.9/accumulo_user_manual.html
