---
title: Apache Accumulo 1.10.1
sortableversion: '01.10.01'
LTM: true
archived: true
---

## About

Apache Accumulo 1.10.1 is a bug fix release of the 1.10 LTM release line.

These release notes are highlights of the changes since 1.10.0. The full
detailed changes can be seen in the git history. If anything is missing from
this list, please [contact] us to have it included.

Users of 1.10.0 or earlier are urged to upgrade to 1.10.1 as soon as possible,
as this is a continuation of the 1.10 LTM release line with critical bug fixes
for security bug [CVE-2020-17533]. Users are also encouraged to consider
migrating to a 2.x version when one that is suitable for their needs becomes
available.

## Critical Bug Fixes

This release includes critical bug fixes to fix security bugs identified as
[CVE-2020-17533]:

* {% ghi 1830 %}, {% ghi 1832 %} Throw exceptions when permission checks fail,
  and improve test coverage for permissions checks (backport of {% ghi 1828 %})

### Other Bug Fixes

* {% ghi 1716 %}, {% ghi 1729 %}, {% ghi 1737 %} Improvements in tool.sh,
  including better support for newer ZooKeeper and Hadoop versions
* {% ghi 1829 %} Improve log message in Delete Cleanup FATE
* {% ghi 1734 %} Support building native libraries on alpine-based distros

## Note About JDK 15

Accumulo 1.x assumes the use of the CMS garbage collector in its build tests
and in the minicluster code. That garbage collector was removed in newer
versions of Java, and the build flags for Java that supported configuring the
CMS garbage collector now cause errors if attempted to be used with Java 15 or
later.

Therefore, a change was made in 1.10.1's build to fail fast if attempting to
build with JDK 15 or later (using JDK 11 or later was already a build
requirement).

If you need to build on JDK 15 or later, and intend to skip tests and don't
intend to use minicluster, you can bypass this build constraint by building
with `-Denforcer.skip`, as a workaround.

## Useful Links

* [Release VOTE email thread][vote-emails]
* [All Changes since 1.10.0][all-changes]
* [All tickets related to this release][milestone]


[CVE-2020-17533]: https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-17533
[milestone]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/milestone/8
[all-changes]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/compare/rel/1.10.0...apache:rel/1.10.1
[contact]: {{ site.baseurl }}/contact-us
[vote-emails]: https://lists.apache.org/thread.html/r90ac3cc0d2356c86a94abf2b6859965e9659b8bcdb6cfd18b69941ac%40%3Cdev.accumulo.apache.org%3E
