---
title: Apache Accumulo 2.0.1
sortableversion: '02.00.01'
---

Apache Accumulo 2.0.1 contains bug fixes for 2.0.0.

Since 2.0 is a non-LTM release line, and since an LTM release line has not yet
been made available for 2.x, this patch backports critical bug fixes to 2.0 to
address security bug [CVE-2020-17533] that could affect any existing 2.0.0
users. Users that have already migrated to 2.0.0 are urged to upgrade to 2.0.1
as soon as possible, and users of 1.10 who wish to upgrade to 2.0 should
upgrade directly to 2.0.1, bypassing 2.0.0.

These release notes are highlights of the changes since 2.0.0. The full
detailed changes can be seen in the git history. If anything is missing from
this list, please [contact] us to have it included.

## Known Issues

Apache Commons VFS was upgraded in {% ghi 1295 %} and some users have reported
issues similar to [VFS-683][VFS683]. Possible solutions are discussed in {% ghi 2775 %}.

## Critical Bug Fixes

This release includes critical bug fixes to fix security bugs identified as
[CVE-2020-17533]:

* {% ghi 1828 %}, {% ghi 1832 %} Throw exceptions when permission checks fail,
  and improve test coverage for permissions checks

### Other Bug Fixes

* {% ghi 1839 %} Fix AccumuloClient's builder to prevent it from modifying a
  provided Properties object when building a client from Properties

## Note About Newer JDK Versions (11 and later)

While work has been done on other branches to better support newer JDK
versions, that is not the case for this non-LTM release. Certain non-critical
aspects of this release are known to break with some newer versions of JDK.

For example, the version of `maven-javadoc-plugin` may fail to generate the
javadocs using a newer JDK's javadoc tool. In addition, this release assumes
the use of the CMS garbage collector in its build tests and in minicluster.
Newer JDKs, where CMS has been removed, may fail to execute Accumulo build
tests in this release.

Therefore, it is recommended to use JDK 8 or JDK 11 with this release, which
are known to work.

## Note About ZooKeeper Versions 3.5 and Later

This release assumes the use of ZooKeeper 3.4. While work has been done on
other branches to better support newer ZooKeeper versions (3.5 and later), this
is a targeted release to fix specific bugs and does not include those kinds of
improvements.

Therefore, in order to use this release with ZooKeeper versions 3.5 and later,
you may need to edit your default class path, or perform other minor changes to
work smoothly with those versions of ZooKeeper. Please [contact] us if you need
assistance working with newer versions of ZooKeeper.

## Upgrading

View the [Upgrading Accumulo documentation][upgrade] for guidance.

## Useful Links

* [Release VOTE email thread][vote-emails]
* [All Changes since 2.0.0][all-changes]
* [GitHub] - List of issues tracked on GitHub corresponding to this release

[CVE-2020-17533]: https://cve.mitre.org/cgi-bin/cvename.cgi?name=CVE-2020-17533
[GitHub]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/issues?q=project%3Aapache%2Faccumulo%2F19
[all-changes]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/compare/rel/2.0.0...apache:rel/2.0.1
[contact]: {{ site.baseurl }}/contact-us
[upgrade]: /docs/2.x/administration/upgrading
[vote-emails]: https://lists.apache.org/thread.html/r0835b67240060cae394c7e4a7ad18a7238f17cabc7a508aa176c95c9%40%3Cdev.accumulo.apache.org%3E
[VFS683]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/projects/VFS/issues/VFS-683
