---
title: Apache Accumulo 1.10.1
sortableversion: '01.10.01'
LTM: true
draft: true
---

## About

Apache Accumulo 1.10.1 is a bug fix release of the 1.10 LTM release line.

This release contains contributions from more than 6 contributors from the
Apace Accumulo community in over 19 commits. These release notes are highlights of those changes. The full
detailed changes can be seen in the git history. If anything is missing from
this list, please [contact] us to have it included.

Users of 1.10.0 or earlier are urged to upgrade to 1.10.1 as soon as it is
available, as this is a continuation of the 1.10 LTM release line.  Users are also encouraged to
consider migrating to a 2.x version when a suitable one becomes available.

## Minimum Requirements

The versions mentioned here are a guide only. It is not expected that our
convenience binary tarball will work out-of-the-box with your particular
environment, and some responsibility is placed on users to properly configure
Accumulo, or even patch and rebuild it from source, for their particular
environment.

Please [contact] us or file a [bug report][issues] if you have trouble with a
specific version or wish to seek tips. Be prepared to provide details of the
problems you encounter, as well as perform some troubleshooting steps of your
own, in order to get the best response.

## Major Bug Fixes
* Update exceptions when permission checks fail (PR #1830 - backport of #1828).
### TODO title bug fix
* Improve log message in Delete Cleanup FATE.
## Other Miscellaneous Bug Fixes
* Testing and build improvements.
  * Support building native libraries on alpine-based distros.
  * Enforce build requirements for java to be at least java 11 and strictly less than java 15.
  * Update tool.sh script used for MR examples to support hadoop 2.0 and 3.0 and ZooKeeper 3.4, 3.5
  * Update release candidate script
    
* {% ghi 1644 %} TODO Describe bugs

## Useful Links

* [Release VOTE email thread][vote-emails]
* [All Changes since 1.10.0][all-changes]
* [GitHub] - List of issues tracked on GitHub corresponding to this release

[GitHub]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/issues?q=project%3Aapache%2Faccumulo%2F8
[LTM]: {{ site.baseurl }}/contributor/versioning#LTM
[all-changes]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/compare/rel/1.10.0...apache:rel/1.10.1
[contact]: {{ site.baseurl }}/contact-us
[issues]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/issues
[semver]: https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html
[vote-emails]: https://lists.apache.org/thread.html/[XXX]dev.accumulo.apache.org%3E
