---
title: Apache Accumulo 1.10.0
sortableversion: '01.10.00'
LTM: true
archived_critical: true
---

## About

Apache Accumulo 1.10.0 is a continuation of the 1.x release line, and is
essentially the next maintenance release of 1.8/1.9, following the 1.9.3
version with some small additional internal improvements. Earlier 1.x versions
are now superseded by this maintenance release, and will no longer be
maintained.

The [semver] minor version number increase (1.9 to 1.10) signals that this
release is backwards compatible with previous minor releases (1.8 and 1.9).
Rather than API additions, the primary reason for this minor version increase
is due to the decision to make Java 8 the minimum supported Java version (see
below for more).

This release contains contributions from more than 13 contributors from the
Apace Accumulo community in over 80 commits and 16 months of work since the
1.9.3 release. These release notes are highlights of those changes. The full
detailed changes can be seen in the git history. If anything is missing from
this list, please [contact] us to have it included.

According to the [Long Term Maintenance (LTM)][LTM] strategy, the intent is to
maintain the 1.10 release line with critical bug and security fixes until one
year after the next LTM version is released. However, this is anticipated to be
the final 1.x legacy release, so it is not expected to receive any new features
or significant non-critical updates, so users wanting new features should plan
to upgrade to a 2.x release, where new feature development is still being done.

Users of 1.9.3 or earlier are urged to upgrade to 1.10.0 as soon as it is
available, as this is a continuation of the 1.9 maintenance line. and to
consider migrating to a 2.x version when a suitable one becomes available.
Accumulo 2.0.0 is currently available, and 2.1.0 is anticipated to be the next
LTM release. If you would like to start preparing for 2.1.0 now, one way to do
this is to start building and testing the next version of your software against
Accumulo 2.0.0 because all 2.x releases should be backwards compatible with
2.0.0, following [semantic versioning][semver].

## Minimum Requirements

The versions mentioned here are a guide only. It is not expected that our
convenience binary tarball will work out-of-the-box with your particular
environment, and some responsibility is placed on users to properly configure
Accumulo, or even patch and rebuild it from source, for their particular
environment.

Please [contact] us or file a [bug report][issues] if you have trouble with a
specific version or wish to seek tips. Be prepared to provide details of the
problems you encounter, as well as perform some troubleshooting steps of your
own, in order to get the best response.

### Java 8

Java 8 is now the minimum supported Java version, and it is designed to work on
Java 11, as well. To build the project from source, Java 11 or later is
required. Please [contact] us if you find any bugs on any Java version.

### Hadoop 2 or 3

This release has been built using Hadoop 2.6.5, and is expected to work with
any Hadoop version 2.6.5 or later. It has also been tested with 3.0.3, and is
expected to work with Hadoop 3.0 versions as well. Hadoop 3.1.3, 3.2.1, and
3.3.0 have also been tested with this version, and are known to work (with at
least basic functionality) with some class path modifications (specifically,
using Guava 27.0-jre instead of the provided 14.0 version).

Particular class path pain points are known to be guava, commons-io,
commons-vfs2, and possibly other commons libraries.

### ZooKeeper

This release has been built agains ZooKeeper 3.4.14, the latest 3.4 release. It
is known to work against 3.5 and 3.6 versions as well, when configured
properly.

## Major Bug Fixes

### Accumulo GC Bug

* {% ghi 1314 %}, {% ghi 1318 %} Eliminate task creation leak caused by the an
  additional timed-task created for each `accumulo-gc` cycle

### Bulk Import Concurrency Bug

* {% ghi 1153 %} Prevent multiple threads from working on same bulk file

### Prevent Metadata Corruption

* {% ghi 1309 %} Prevent cloning of the metadata table, which could lead to
  data loss during `accumulo-gc` for either the clone or the original
  `accumulo.metadata` table
* {% ghi 1310 %} Improve GC handling of WALs used by root tablet. If the root
  tablet had WALs, the GC did not consider them during collection
* {% ghi 1379 %} During GC scans, an error will be thrown if the GC fails
  consistency checks; added a check to ensure the last tablet was seen

## Other Miscellaneous Bug Fixes

* {% ghi 1107 %} Fix `ConcurrentModificationException` in
  `HostRegexTableLoadBalancer`
* {% ghi 1185 %} Fixed a bug where we were using an unauthenticated ZooKeeper
  client to try to read data with an ACL configured; this was previously
  permitted until ZooKeeper fixed a security bug in their own code, which
  revealed our incorrect ZooKeeper client code
* {% ghi 1371 %} Fix a bug in our MapReduce code that prevented some users from
  reading tables they had valid permissions to read
* {% ghi 1401 %} Display trace information correctly in `accumulo-monitor`
* {% ghi 1478 %} Don't ignore the instance and zookeepers parameters on the
  command-line when running certain utilities
* {% ghi 1532 %} Remove need for ANT on classpath
* {% ghi 1555 %} Fix idempotency bug in importtable
* {% ghi 1644 %} Retry minor compactions to prevent transient iterator issues
  blocking forever

## Major Improvements

### Performance Enhancements

* {% ghi 990 %} Avoid multiple threads loading same cache block
* {% ghi 1352 %} Add an option to configure the metadata action after an
  `accumulo-gc` cycle using a new property instead of a hard-coded compaction
  * {% plink1x gc.post.metadata.action %}
* {% ghi 1462 %}, {% ghi 1526 %} Temporarily cache the existence check for
  recovery WALs, so multiple tablets pointing to the same WAL to avoid
  expensive redundant checks

### Identifying Busy Tablets

* {% ghi 1291 %}, {% ghi 1296 %} Log busy tablets by ingest and query at
  configurable intervals for better hot-spot detection using new properties
  * {% plink1x tserver.log.busy.tablets.count %} and
  * {% plink1x tserver.log.busy.tablets.interval %}

### TServer Startup and Shutdown Protections

* {% ghi 1158 %} Require a configurable number of servers to be online, up to a
  max wait time, before assignments begin on startup
  * {% plink1x master.startup.tserver.avail.min.count %}
  * {% plink1x master.startup.tserver.avail.max.wait %}
* {% ghi 1456 %} Throttle the number of shutdown requests sent to tservers to
  prevent cluster self-destruction and give time for triage

### New Metrics

* {% ghi 1406 %} Add GC cycle metrics (file and wal collection) to be reported
  via the hadoop2 metrics. This exposes the gc cycle metrics available in the
  monitor to external metrics systems and includes run time for the new gc post
  operation (compact, flush)
  * Enable with new property, {% plink1x gc.metrics.enabled %}
    * `AccGcCandidates` - number of candidates for GC
    * `AccGcDeleted` - number of candidates deleted
    * `AccGcErrors` - number of deletion errors
    * `AccGcFinished` - timestamp of GC cycle finished
    * `AccGcInUse` - number of candidates still in use
    * `AccGcPostOpDuration` - duration of compact / flush
    * `AccGcRunCycleCount` - 1-up cycle count
    * `AccGcStarted` - timestamp of GC cycle start
    * `AccGcWalCandidates` - number of WAL candidates for collection
    * `AccGcWalDeleted` - number of WALs deleted
    * `AccGcWalErrors` - number of errors during WAL deletion
    * `AccGcWalFinished` - timestamp of WAL collection completion
    * `AccGcWalInUse` - number of WALs in use
    * `AccGcWalStarted` - timestamp of WAL collection start

## Other Miscellaneous Improvements

* {% ghi 1108 %} Improve logging when ZooKeeper session expires
* {% ghi 1299 %} Add optional `-t` tablename to importdirectory shell command
* {% ghi 1338 %} Reduce verbose logging of merge operations in Master log
* {% ghi 1475 %} Option to leave cloned tables offline on creation
* {% ghi 1503 %} Support ZooKeeper 3.5 (and later), in addition to 3.4

## Useful Links

* [Release VOTE email thread][vote-emails]
* [All Changes since 1.9.3][all-changes]
* [All tickets related to this release][milestone]


[milestone]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/milestone/7
[LTM]: {{ site.baseurl }}/contributor/versioning#LTM
[all-changes]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/compare/rel/1.9.3...apache:rel/1.10.0
[contact]: {{ site.baseurl }}/contact-us
[issues]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/issues
[semver]: https://semver.org/spec/v2.0.0.html
[vote-emails]: https://lists.apache.org/thread.html/rd4731d4fd87c30958ad82a8b0be9375f2562ab0a9531ea037e646f3c%40%3Cdev.accumulo.apache.org%3E
