---
title: Apache Accumulo 2.1.0
sortableversion: '02.01.00'
draft: true
---

** DRAFT RELEASE NOTES **

## Binary Incompatibility

This release is known to be incompatible with prior versions of the client
libraries. That is, the 2.0.0 or 2.0.1 version of the client libraries will not
be able to communicate with a 2.1.0 or later installation of Accumulo, nor will
the 2.1.0 or later version of the client libraries communicate with a 2.0.1 or
earlier installation.

## Notable Changes

### Compaction Changes

Significant changes were made to how Accumulo compacts files in this release.  See 
{% dlink administration/compaction %} for details, below are some highlights.

 * Multiple concurrent compactions per tablet on disjoint files is now
   supported.  Previously only a single compaction could run on a tablet.  This
   allows tablets that are running long compactions on large files to
   concurrently compact new smaller files that arrive.
 * Multiple compaction thread pools per tablet server are now supported.
   Previously only a single thread pool existed within a tablet server for
   compactions.  With a single thread pool, if all threads are working on long
   compactions it can starve quick compactions.  Now compactions with little
   data can be processed by dedicated thread pools.
 * Accumulo's default algorithm for selecting files to compact was modified to
   select the smallest set of files that meet the compaction ratio criteria
   instead of the largest set.  This change makes tablets more aggressive about
   reducing their number files while still doing logarithmic compaction work.
   This change also enables efficiently compacting new small files that arrive
   during a long running compaction. 
 * Having dedicated compaction threads pools for tables is now supported
   through configuration.  The default configuration for Accumulo sets up
   dedicated thread pools for compacting the Accumulo metadata table.
 * Merging minor compactions were dropped.  These were added to Accumulo to
   address the problem of new files arriving while a long running compaction
   was running.  Merging minor compactions could cause O(N^2) compaction work.
   The new compaction changes in this release can satisfy this use case while
   doing a logarithmic amount of work.

CompactionStrategy was deprecated in favor of new public APIs.
See its [javadoc]({% jurl org.apache.accumulo.tserver.compaction.CompactionStrategy %}) 
for more information. Github tickets related to these changes: {% ghi 564 %} {% ghi 1605 %} {% ghi 1609 %} {% ghi 1649 %} {% ghi %}

### External Compactions (experimental)

This release includes two new optional server components, CompactionCoordinator and Compactor,
that enables the user to run major compactions outside of the Tablet Server. See 
{% dlink _docs-2/getting-started/design.md}, {% dlink administration/compaction %} and the
External Compaction [blog post][ext_comp_blog] for more information. This work was completed
over many tickets, see the GitHub [project] [ext_comp_project] for the related issues. {% ghi 2096 %}

### Fixed GC Metadata hotspots

Prior to this release, Accumulo stored GC file candidates in the metadata table
using rows of the form `~del<URI>`. This row schema lead to uneven load on
the metadata table and metadata tablets that were eventually never used. In {%
ghi 1043 %} {% ghi 1344 %} the row format was changed to `~del<hash(URI)><URI>` resulting in
even load on the metadata table and even data spread in the tablets. After
upgrading, there may still be splits in the metadata table using the old row
format. These splits can be merged away as shown in the example below which
starts off with splits generated from the old and new row schema. The old
splits with the prefix `~delhdfs` are merged away.

```
root@uno> getsplits -t accumulo.metadata 
2<
~
~del55
~dela7
~delhdfs://localhost:8020/accumulo/tables/2/default_tablet/F00000a0.rf
~delhdfs://localhost:8020/accumulo/tables/2/default_tablet/F00000kb.rf
root@uno> merge -t accumulo.metadata -b ~delhdfs -e ~delhdfs~
root@uno> getsplits -t accumulo.metadata 
2<
~
~del55
~dela7
```

### Master Renamed to Manager

In order to support more inclusive language in our code, the Accumulo team has
renamed all references to the word "master" to "manager" (with the exception
of deprecated classes and packages retained for compatibility). This change
includes the master process, configuration properties with master in the name,
utilities with master in the name, and packages/classes in the code base. Where
these changes affect the public API, the deprecated "master" name will still be
supported until at least Accumulo 3.0.

  > **Important**
  One particular change to be aware of is that certain state for the manager
  process is stored in ZooKeeper, previously in under a directory named
  `masters`. This directory has been renamed to `managers`, and the upgrade
  will happen automatically if you launch Accumulo using the provided scripts.
  However, if you do not use the built in scripts (e.g., accumulo-cluster or
  accumulo-service), then you will need to perform a one-time upgrade of the
  ZooKeeper state by executing the `RenameMasterDirInZK` utility:
  ```
  ${ACCUMULO_HOME}/bin/accumulo org.apache.accumulo.manager.upgrade.RenameMasterDirInZK
  ```

Some other specific examples of these changes include:

* All configuration properties starting with `master.` have been renamed to
  start with `manager.` instead. The `master.*` property names in the site
  configuration file (or passed on the command-line) are converted internally
  to the new name, and a warning is printed. However, the old name can still be
  used until at least the 3.0 release of Accumulo. Any `master.*` properties
  that have been set in ZooKeeper will be automatically converted to the new
  `manager.*` name when Accumulo is upgraded. The old property names can still
  be used by the `config` shell command or via the methods accessible via
  `AccumuloClient`, but a warning will be generated when the old names are
  used. You are encouraged to update all references to `master` in your site
  configuration files to `manager` when installing Accumulo 2.1.
* The tablet balancers in the `org.apache.accumulo.server.master.balancer`
  package have all been relocated to `org.apache.accumulo.server.manager.balancer`.
  DefaultLoadBalancer has been also renamed to SimpleLoadBalancer along with
  the move. The default balancer has been updated from
  `org.apache.accumulo.server.master.balancer.TableLoadBalancer` to
  `org.apache.accumulo.server.manager.balancer.TableLoadBalancer`, and the
  default per-table balancer has been updated from
  `org.apache.accumulo.server.master.balancer.DefaultLoadBalancer` to
  `org.apache.accumulo.server.manager.balancer.SimpleLoadBalancer`. If you have
  customized the tablet balancer configuration, you are strongly encouraged to
  update your configuration to reference the updated balancer names. If you
  written a custom tablet balancer, it should be updated to implement the new
  interface `org.apache.accumulo.server.manager.balancer.TabletBalancer`
  rather than extending the deprecated abstract
  `org.apache.accumulo.server.master.balancer.TabletBalancer`.
* The configuration file `masters` for identifying the manager host(s) has been
  deprecated. If this file is found, a warning will be printed. The replacement
  file `managers` should be used (i.e., rename your masters file to managers)
  instead.
* The `master` argument to the `accumulo-service` script has been deprecated,
  and the replacement `manager` argument should be used instead.
* The `-master` argument to the `org.apache.accumulo.server.util.ZooZap`
  utility has been deprecated and the replacement `-manager` argument should be
  used instead.
* The `GetMasterStats` utility has been renamed to `GetManagerStats`.
* `org.apache.accumulo.master.state.SetGoalState` is deprecated, and any custom
  scripts that invoke this utility should be updated to call
  `org.apache.accumulo.manager.state.SetGoalState` instead.
* `masterMemory` in `minicluster.properties` has been deprecated and
  `managerMemory` should be used instead in any `minicluster.properties` files
  you have configured.
* See also {% ghi 1640 %} {% ghi 1642 %} {% ghi 1703 %} {% ghi 1704 %} {% ghi 1873 %} {% ghi 1907 %}

### New Tracing Facility

HTrace support was removed in this release and has been replaced with [OpenTelemetry] [opentelemetry_home]. Trace information
will not be shown in the monitor. See comments in {% ghi 2259 %} for an example of how to configure
Accumulo to emit traces to supported OpenTelemetry sinks. {% ghi 2257 %}

### New Metrics Implementation

The Hadoop Metrics2 framework is no longer being used to emit metrics from Accumulo. Accumulo is now
using the [Micrometer] [micrometer_home] framework. Metric name and type changes have been documented in
org.apache.accumulo.core.metrics.MetricsProducer, see the [javadoc]({% jurl org.apache.accumulo.core.metrics.MetricsProducer %})
for more information. See comments in {% ghi 2305 %} for an example of how to configure Accumulo to emit
metrics to supported Micrometer sinks. {% ghi 1134 %}

### New SPI Package

New SPI Package {% ghi 1900 %} {% ghi 1905 %} {% ghi 1880 %} {% ghi 1891 %} {% ghi 1426 %}

### New listtablets shell command.

New command for debugging tablets called listtablets {% ghi 1317 %} {% ghi 1821 %}

### New option for cloning offline

Added option to leave cloned tables offline {% ghi 1474 %} {% ghi 1475 %}

### New max tablets option in bulk import

Created max tablets property in new bulk import {% ghi 1614 %}

### New ability for user to define context classloaders

Deprecated the existing VFS ClassLoader for eventual removal and created a new mechanism for users
to load their own classloader implementations. The new VFS classloader and VFS context classloaders
are in a new [repo] [vfs_system_classloader] and can now be specified using system properties. {% ghi 1747 %} {% ghi 1715 %}

### Change in uncaught Exception/Error handling in server-side threads

Consolidated and normalized thread pool and thread creation. All threads created through this code path
will have an UncaughtExceptionHanlder attached to it that will log the fact that the Thread encountered
an uncaught Exception and is now dead. When an Error is encountered it will attempt to print a message
to stderr then terminate the VM using Runtime.halt. {% ghi 1808 %} {% ghi 1818 %}

### Updated hash algorithm

TODO clarify what was done for this. {% ghi 1787 %} {% ghi 1788 %} {% ghi 1798 %} {% ghi 1810 %}

### Various Performance improvements when deleting tables

Make delete table operations cancel user compactions {% ghi 2030 %} {% ghi 2169 %}.
Prevent compactions from starting when delete table is called {% ghi 2182 %} {% ghi 2240 %}.
Added check to not flush when table is being deleted {% ghi 1887 %}.
Make the UnloadTabletHandler log before waiting for deletes to finish {% ghi 1881 %}.
Stop user flush if table is being deleted {% ghi 1931 %}

### New jshell entry point

Created new "jshell" convenience entry point {% ghi 1870 %} {% ghi 1910 %}

### Other notable changes

* {% ghi 1309 %} Prevent cloning metadata table
* {% ghi 1294 %} {% ghi 1299 %} Add optional -t tablename to importdirectory shell command.
* {% ghi 1332 %} Disable FileSystemMonitor checks by default
* {% ghi 1345 %} {% ghi 1352 %} Allow gc initiated compaction as option.
* {% ghi 1090 %} {% ghi 1330 %} Consolidate/Simplify ServerOpts
* {% ghi 1389 %} Always choose volume for new tablet files.
* {% ghi 1390 %} {% ghi 1400 %} {% ghi 1411 %} Declare core.iterators package public API
* {% ghi 1441 %} {% ghi 1405 %} Improvements to Upgrades
* {% ghi 1397 %} {% ghi 1461 %} Replace relative paths on upgrade.
* {% ghi 1456 %} {% ghi 1457 %} Prevent catastrophic tserver shutdown by rate limiting the shutdown
* {% ghi 1528 %} {% ghi 1514 %} {% ghi 1515 %} {% ghi 1516 %} Upgraded to Log4j2
* {% ghi 1513 %} {% ghi 1530 %} {% ghi 1531 %} {% ghi 1877 %} Upgraded to Zookeeper 3.5.9
* {% ghi 1053 %} {% ghi 1060 %} {% ghi 1576 %} Support multiple volumes in import table
* {% ghi 1464 %} Leverage SimpleThreadPool for improving importtable performance
* {% ghi 1568 %} Support multiple tservers / node in accumulo-service
* {% ghi 1644 %} {% ghi 1645 %} Fix issue with minor compaction not retrying
* {% ghi 1660 %} Dropped MemoryManager property
* {% ghi 1543 %} {% ghi 1650 %} Use batching strategy for SimpleGarbageCollector candidate memory utilization
* {% ghi 1692 %} Fix file permissions in source assembly tarball
* {% ghi 1721 %} Mark security properties experimental
* {% ghi 1739 %} {% ghi 1746 %} Cleanup Splits file if CreateTable FaTE operation fails.
* {% ghi 1742 %} {% ghi 1765 %} Added forEach to Scanner
* {% ghi 1764 %} {% ghi 1783 %} Parallelize listcompactions in shell
* {% ghi 1797 %} Add table option to shell delete command.
* {% ghi 1848 %} Update column name in the monitor UI
* {% ghi 2039 %} {% ghi 2045 %} Add bulk import option to ignore empty dirs
* {% ghi 2064 %} Add option to disable encryption to AESCryptoService

## Upgrading

View the [Upgrading Accumulo documentation][upgrade] for guidance.

## 2.1.0 GitHub Project

[All tickets related to 2.1.0.][project]

[upgrade]: /docs/2.x/administration/upgrading
[project]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/projects/3
[ext_comp_blog]: https://accumulo.apache.org/blog/2021/07/08/external-compactions.html
[ext_comp_project]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/projects/20
[vfs_system_classloader]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo-classloaders/tree/main/modules/vfs-class-loader
[opentelemetry_home]: https://opentelemetry.io/
[micrometer_home]: https://micrometer.io/