---
title: Apache Accumulo 2.1.1
sortableversion: '02.01.01'
LTM: true
draft: true
---
## About

Apache Accumulo 2.1.1 is a patch release of the 2.1.0 LTM line. 

### Major Improvements

### Minor Improvements

* {% ghi 3180 %} Enable users to provide per-volume Hadoop Filesystem configuration
  overrides via the Accumulo configuration. Hadoop Filesystem objects are configured
  by the standard Hadoop mechanisms (default configuration, core-site.xml,
  hdfs-site.xml, etc.), but these configuration files don't allow for the same
  property to be specified with different values for different namespaces. This change
  allows users to specify different property values for different Accumulo volumes, which
  will be applied to the Hadoop Filesystem object created for each Accumulo volume.
* {% ghi 3177 %} Added server side code to validate that property values conform to the
  specified property type (string, boolean, etc.).
* {% ghi 3175 %} Reset number of locks in SynchronousLoadingBlockCache from 2017 back
  to 5003, the value that it was in 1.10. Also, modified the lock to be fair, which allows
  the different scan threads in the server to make progress in a more fair manner when
  they need to load a block into the cache.
* {% ghi 3118 %} Added option to the `admin zoo-info-viewer` command to dump the ACLs
  on ZooKeeper nodes. This information can be used to fix znodes with incorrect ACLs
  during the upgrade process.
* {% ghi 3077 %}, {% ghi 3079 %}, {% ghi 3083 %}, {% ghi 3123 %} Avoid filling
  OS page cache by calling `setDropBehind` on the FS data stream when
  performing likely one-time file accesses, as with WAL and compaction input
  and output files. This should allow files that might benefit more from
  caching to stay in the cache longer. {% ghi 3083 %} and {% ghi 3123 %}
  introduces new properties, table.compaction.major.output.drop.cache and 
  table.compaction.minor.output.drop.cache, for dropping pages from the OS
  page cache for compaction output files. These changes will only have an
  impact on HDFS FileSystem implementations and operating systems that support
  the underlying OS system call. See associated HDFS [issue][HDFS-16864]
  that will improve the underlying implementation when resolved.
* {% ghi 3023 %}, {% ghi 3053 %} Prevent excessive logging when an ExternalCompaction
  is cancelled for cause and around the ThreadPools
* {% ghi 3057 %} Modified Monitor to direct DataTable errors to console

### Bug Fixes

* {% ghi 3164 %} Fixed bug in ScanServer where failures to scan a specific tablet was not being
  handled correctly, which would lead to the tablet not being scanned.
* {% ghi 3059 %} Removed stale compactions from CompactionCoordinator internal structure. The
  CompactionCoordinator has an internal data structure where it keeps track of running compactions. Running
  compactions were not being removed from this set in some edge cases so they continued to be shown on the
  Monitor when in reality the compaction was not running. This occured in testing when the Compactor process
  was killed by the agitator. The compaction was rescheduled to run on a different Compactor, the issue here
  was just orphaned information in the data structure being shown in the Monitor.
* {% ghi 3048 %} Output time strings on the monitor using the correct user locale (also made them more concise)

## Upgrading

View the [Upgrading Accumulo documentation][upgrade] for guidance.

## 2.1.1 GitHub Project

[All tickets related to 2.1.1.][project]

## Known Issues

At the time of release, the following issues were known:


[LTM]: {{ site.baseurl }}/contributor/versioning#LTM
[upgrade]: /docs/2.x/administration/upgrading
[project]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/projects/25
[HDFS-16864]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HDFS-16864
