---
title: Apache Accumulo 1.10.2
sortableversion: '01.10.02'
LTM: true
---

## About

Apache Accumulo 1.10.2 is a bug fix release of the 1.10 LTM release line.

These release notes are highlights of the changes since 1.10.1. The full
detailed changes can be seen in the git history. If anything important is
missing from this list, please [contact] us to have it included.

Users of 1.10.1 or earlier are encouraged to upgrade to 1.10.2, as this is a
continuation of the 1.10 LTM release line with bug fixes and improvements, and
it supersedes any prior 1.x version. Users are also encouraged to consider
migrating to a 2.x version when one that is suitable for their needs becomes
available.

## Major Improvements

This release bundles [reload4j](https://reload4j.qos.ch/) ({% ghi 2458 %}) in
the convenience binary and uses that instead of log4j 1.2. This is to make it
easier for users to avoid the many CVEs that apply to log4j 1.2, which is no
longer being maintained. Accumulo 2.x versions will have already switched to
use the latest log4j 2. However, doing so required making some breaking API
changes and other substantial changes, so that can't be done for Accumulo 1.10.
Using reload4j instead, was deemed to be a viable interim solution until
Accumulo 2.x.

### Other Improvements

* {% ghi 1808 %} Re-throw exceptions in threads instead of merely logging them
* {% ghi 1863 %} Avoid unnecessory redundant log sorting
* {% ghi 1917 %} Ensure RFileWriterBuilder API validates filenames
* {% ghi 2006 %} Detect system config changes in HostRegexTableLoadBalancer without restarting master
* {% ghi 2464 %} Apply timeout to socket.connect()

### Other Bug Fixes

* {% ghi 1775 %} Ensure monitor reports a dead tserver when it is killed
* {% ghi 1858 %} Fix a bug in the monitor graphs due to use of int instead of long
* {% ghi 2370 %} Fix bug in getsplits command in the shell

## Note About JDK 15

See the note in the 1.10.1 release notes about the use of JDK 15 or later, as
the information pertaining to the use of the CMS garbage collector remains
applicable to this version.

## Known Issues

* {% ghi 2775 %} Some users have reported problems with VFS-683, found in
  commons-vfs2 version 2.3, which is bundled by default in Accumulo 1.10.2's
  binary tarball distribution, and have reported more success with commons-vfs2
  version 2.1, which can be substituted on the class path instead. The Accumulo
  team cannot know which version will work best for your particular
  environment, as version 2.1 also seems to have some bugs that you may
  encounter. We cannot recommend one version over another for your specific
  situation. If users wish to avoid using the dynamic class loading and remote
  file system class loading features that commons-vfs2 empowers in Accumulo,
  they can use local class paths only in their runtime environment, and solve
  class path management synchronization issues on a cluster in other ways, such
  as using a script to rsync dependencies prior to the launching the Accumulo
  processes. Using rsync is only one possibility, and may not be suitable for
  you. Consider reaching out to our user mailing list for ideas and
  recommendations from other users.


## Useful Links

* [Release VOTE email thread][vote-emails]
* [All Changes since 1.10.1][all-changes]
* [GitHub] - List of issues tracked on GitHub corresponding to this release

[GitHub]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/issues?q=project%3Aapache%2Faccumulo%2F18
[all-changes]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/compare/rel/1.10.1...apache:rel/1.10.2
[contact]: {{ site.baseurl }}/contact-us
[vote-emails]: https://lists.apache.org/thread/bq424vnov27nwnkb471oxg5nd7m6xwn9
