---
title: Apache Accumulo 2.1.2
sortableversion: '02.01.02'
LTM: true
---
## About

Apache Accumulo 2.1.2 is a patch release of the 2.1.0 LTM line. It contains
bug fixes and minor enhancements. This version supersedes 2.1.1. Users
upgrading to 2.1 should upgrade directly to this version instead of 2.1.1.

Included here are some highlights of the most interesting bugs and features
fixed in 2.1.2. For the full set of bug fixes, please see the commit history
or issue tracker.

NOTE: This 2.1 release also includes any applicable bug fixes and improvements
that occurred in 1.10.3 and earlier.

### Notable Improvements

Improvements that affect performance:

* {% ghi 3499 %}, {% ghi 3543 %} {% ghi 3549 %} Made some optimizations around the processing of file
references in the GC code.

* {% ghi 3500 %}, {% ghi 3509 %} TabletFile constructor was calling Path.getParent() which was spending
a lot of time performing Path validation. Modified the constructor to reduce the calls to Path.getParent.

* {% ghi 3541 %}, {% ghi 3542 %} The TabletGroupWatcher threads in the Manager are responsible for tablet
state and for making sure that tablets are balanced and assigned. The TabletGroupWatcher's iterate over
all of the tablets, then wait for 60s before beginning the next iteration. Backported a new property,
MANAGER_TABLET_GROUP_WATCHER_INTERVAL, to make this wait time configurable.

Improvements that help with administration:

* {% ghi 3678 %}, {% ghi 3683 %} Added validation of property table.class.loader.context when it is set.
If the context name is null, an empty string, results in an exception creating the classloader for the
context, or if the resulting classloader is null, then an exception will be returned and the property
will not be set.

* {% ghi 3548 %}, {% ghi 3561 %} Displayed Manager state prominently on the Monitor UI.

* {% ghi 3383 %}, {% ghi 3680 %} Prompt the user for confirmation when they attempt to set a deprecated
property in the Shell as a way to get them to use the non-deprecated property.

* {% ghi 3488 %}, {% ghi 3612 %} Made tserver scans and compaction columns numerically sortable on the
Monitor UI.

* {% ghi 3233 %}, {% ghi 3562 %} Added copy-properties option to createnamespace and createtable shell
commands

### Notable Bug Fixes

* {% ghi 3674 %}, {% ghi 3677 %}, {% ghi 3685 %} An invalid context classloader property was preventing
a minor compaction output file from being created, because the volume chooser class could not be loaded,
which failed the minor compaction thread. The minor compaction thread, once dead, will prevent future
minor compactions from starting which will prevent the tablet from being closed normally. The fixes here
include catching a broader range of exceptions in the minor compaction thread in an attempt to save it
from dying and initiating a minor compaction before closing the compactable object in the tablet.
  
* {% ghi 3630 %}, {% ghi 3631 %} ClientContext incorrectly converting BatchWriter latency and timeout values

* {% ghi 3617 %}, {% ghi 3622 %} Close LocalityGroupReader when IOException is thrown to release reference
to a possibly corrupted stream in a cached block file.

* {% ghi 3570 %}, {% ghi 3571 %} Fix TabletGroupWatcher shutdown order

* {% ghi 3569 %}, {% ghi 3579 %} {% ghi 3644 %} Changes to ensure that scan sessions are cleaned up

* {% ghi 3553 %}, {% ghi 3555 %} A failed user compaction would not retry and would hang

* {% ghi 3600 %} Normalized metric labels and structure

## Upgrading

View the [Upgrading Accumulo documentation][upgrade] for guidance.

## 2.1.2 GitHub Project

[All tickets related to 2.1.2.][project]


[LTM]: {{ site.baseurl }}/contributor/versioning#LTM
[upgrade]: /docs/2.x/administration/upgrading
[project]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/projects/29
