---
title: Apache Accumulo 3.0.0
sortableversion: '03.00.00'
---
## About

Apache Accumulo 3.0.0 is a non-LTM major version release. While it
primarily contains the 2.1 codebase, including all patches through
2.1.2, it has also removed a substantial number of deprecated features
and code, in an attempt to clean up several years of accrued technical
debt, and lower the maintenance burden to make way for future
improvements. It also contains a few other minor improvements.

## Notable Removals

* {% ghi 1328 %} The FileSystem monitor has been removed and will no
  longer watch for problems with local file systems and self-terminate.
  System administrators are encouraged to use whatever systems health
  monitoring is appropriate for their deployments, rather than depend on
  Accumulo to monitor these.
* {% ghi 2443 %} The MapReduce APIs embedded in the accumulo-core module
  were removed. The separate `accumulo-hadoop-mapreduce` jar is their
  replacement.
* {% ghi 3073 %} The legacy Connector and Instance client classes were removed.
  The AccumuloClient is their replacement.
* {% ghi 3080 %} The cross-data center replication feature was removed without
  replacement due to lack of being maintained, having numerous outstanding
  unfixed issues with no volunteer to maintain it since it was deprecated, and
  substantial code complexity. The built-in replication table it used for
  tracking replication metadata will be removed on upgrade.
* {% ghi 3114 %}, {% ghi 3115 %}, {% ghi 3116 %}, {% ghi 3117 %} Removed
  deprecated VolumeChooser, TabletBalancer, Constraint, and other APIs, in
  favor of their SPI replacements.
* {% ghi 3106 %} Remove deprecated configuration properties (see 2.1 property
  documentation for which ones were deprecated)
* {% ghi 3112 %} Remove CompactionStrategy class in favor of CompactionSelector
  and CompactionConfigurer.
* {% ghi 3160 %} Remove upgrade code for versions prior to 2.1 (minimum version
  to upgrade from is now 2.1.
* {% ghi 3192 %} Remove arguments to server processes, such as (`-a`, `-g`,
  `-q`, etc.) were removed in favor of configuration properties that can be
  specified in the Accumulo configuration files or supplied on a per-process
  basis using the `-o` argument. The provided cluster management reference
  scripts were updated in {% ghi 3197 %} to use the `-o` method.
* {% ghi 3136 %} Remove the built-in VFS classloader support. To use a custom
  classloader, users must now set the ContextClassLoaderFactory implementation
  in the properties. The default is now the URLContextClassLoaderFactory.
* {% ghi 3318 %} Remove the old bulk import implementation, replaced by the new
  bulk import API added [in 2.0.0][bulk import release notes].
* {% ghi 3265 %} Remove scan interpreter and scan formatter from the shell
* {% ghi 3361 %} Remove all remaining references to the old "master" service
  (renamed to "manager").
* {% ghi 3360 %} Remove checks and code related to the old password hashing
  mechanism in Accumulo. This will discontinue warnings about users passwords
  that are still out of date. Instead, those outdated passwords will simply
  become invalid. If the user authenticated to Accumulo at any time prior to
  upgrading, their password will have been converted. So this only affects
  accounts that were never used with 2.1 at all. As mitigation, such users will
  be able to have their password reset by the root user. If the root user never
  authenticated (and neither had another admin user) while on 2.1 (very very
  unlikely), an administrator can reset the entire user database through the
  normal init step to reset security.
* {% ghi 3378 %} Remove broken support for old map files. (RFiles have been in
  use for a long time, so this should not impact any users; if users had been
  trying to use map files, they would have found that they were broken anyway)

## Notable Additions

* {% ghi 3088 %} New methods were added to compaction-related APIs to share
  information about the current tablet being compacted to user code
* {% ghi 3107 %} Decompose internal thrift services by function to make RPC
  functionality more modular by server instances
* {% ghi 3189 %} Standardized server lock data structure in ZooKeeper
* {% ghi 3206 %} Internal caches now use Caffeine instead of Guava's Cache
* {% ghi 3161 %}, {% ghi 3288 %} The internal service (renamed from
  GarbageCollectionLogger to LowMemoryDetector) that was previously used only
  to report low memory in servers, was made configurable to allow pausing
  certain operations like scanning, minor compactions, or major compactions,
  when memory is low. See the server properties for `general.low.mem.*`.

## Upgrading

View the [Upgrading Accumulo documentation][upgrade] for guidance.

## Useful Links

* [All tickets related to this release][milestone]

This release also includes bug fixes from 2.1.2 and earlier.


[upgrade]: /docs/2.x/administration/upgrading
[bulk import release notes]: https://accumulo.apache.org/release/accumulo-2.0.0/#new-bulk-import-api
[milestone]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/milestone/18
