---
title: Apache Accumulo 2.1.2
sortableversion: '02.01.02'
LTM: true
archived: true
---
## About

Apache Accumulo 2.1.2 is a patch release of the 2.1 LTM line. It contains bug
fixes and minor enhancements. This version supersedes 2.1.1. Users upgrading to
2.1 should upgrade directly to this version instead of 2.1.1.

Included here are some highlights of the most interesting bugs fixed and
features added in 2.1.2. For the full set of changes, please see the commit
history or issue tracker.

### Notable Improvements

Improvements that affect performance:

* {% ghi 3499 %}, {% ghi 3543 %}, {% ghi 3549 %}, {% ghi 3500 %}, {% ghi 3509 %}
  Made some optimizations around the processing of file references in the
  accumulo-gc code, including optimizing a constructor in a class called
  `TabletFile` used to track file references.
* {% ghi 3541 %}, {% ghi 3542 %} Added a new property,
  {% plink manager.tablet.watcher.interval %}, to make the time to wait between
  scanning the metadata table for outstanding tablet actions (such as assigning
  tablets, etc.) to be configurable.

Improvements that help with administration:

* {% ghi 3678 %}, {% ghi 3683 %} Added extra validation of property
  {% plink table.class.loader.context %} at the time it is set, to prevent
  invalid contexts from being set on a table.
* {% ghi 3548 %}, {% ghi 3561 %} Added a banner to the manager page in the
  Monitor that displays the manager state and goal state when they are not
  normal.
* {% ghi 3383 %}, {% ghi 3680 %} Prompt the user for confirmation when they
  attempt to set a deprecated property in the Shell as a way to get them to use
  the non-deprecated property.
* {% ghi 3233 %}, {% ghi 3562 %} Add option to `--exclude-parent` to allow
  creating a table or namespace in the shell initialized with only the
  properties set on another table or namespace, but not those the other table
  or namespace were inheriting from their parent.
* {% ghi 3600 %} Normalized metric labels and structure.

### Notable Bug Fixes

* {% ghi 3488 %}, {% ghi 3612 %} Fixed sorting of some columns on the monitor
* {% ghi 3674 %}, {% ghi 3677 %}, {% ghi 3685 %} Prevent an invalid table
  context and other errors from killing the minor compaction thread and
  preventing a tablet from being closed and shutting down normally.
* {% ghi 3630 %}, {% ghi 3631 %} Fix a bug where BatchWriter latency and
  timeout values were incorrectly converted to the wrong time unit..
* {% ghi 3617 %}, {% ghi 3622 %} Close LocalityGroupReader when IOException is
  thrown to release reference to a possibly corrupted stream in a cached block
  file.
* {% ghi 3570 %}, {% ghi 3571 %} Fixed the TabletGroupWatcher shutdown order.
* {% ghi 3569 %}, {% ghi 3579 %} {% ghi 3644 %} Changes to ensure that scan
  sessions are cleaned up.
* {% ghi 3553 %}, {% ghi 3555 %} A bug where a failed user compaction would not
  retry and would hang was fixed.

### Other Notable Changes

* {% ghi 3550 %} The contents of the contrib directory have been moved to more
  appropriate locations for build-related resources

## Upgrading

View the [Upgrading Accumulo documentation][upgrade] for guidance.

## Useful Links

* [All tickets related to this release][milestone]


[upgrade]: /docs/2.x/administration/upgrading
[milestone]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/milestone/16
