---
title: Apache Accumulo 1.10.4
sortableversion: '01.10.04'
LTM: true
archived: true
---

## About

Apache Accumulo 1.10.4 is the final bug fix release of the 1.10 LTM release
line. As of this release, the 1.10 release line is now considered end-of-life.
This means that any fixes that are applied because of a bug found in this
version will not be applied and released as a new 1.10 patch version, but
instead will be applied and released to the currently active release lines, if
they apply to those versions.

These release notes are highlights of the changes since 1.10.3. The full
detailed changes can be seen in the git history. If anything important is
missing from this list, please [contact] us to have it included.

Users of any 1.10 version are encouraged to upgrade to the next LTM release,
which is 2.1 at the time of this writing. This patch release is provided as a
final release with all the patches the developers have made to 1.10, for
anybody who must remain using 1.10, and who want to upgrade from an earlier 1.x
version.

## Known Issues

Apache Commons VFS was upgraded in {% ghi 1295 %} for 1.10.0 and some users have reported
issues similar to [VFS-683][VFS683]. Possible solutions are discussed in {% ghi 2775 %}.
This issue is applicable to all 1.10 versions.

## Major Improvements

* {% ghi 3391 %} Drop support for MapFile file formats as an alternative to
  RFile; the use of MapFiles was already broken, and had been for a long time.
  So this change was done to cause an explicit and detectable failure, rather
  than allow a silent one to occur if a MapFile was attempted to be used.
* {% ghi 3703 %} Add verification checks to improve the reliability of the
  accumulo-gc, in order to ensure that a full row for a tablet was seen when a
  file deletion candidate is checked

### Other Improvements

* {% ghi 3300 %} Fix the documentation about iterator teardown in the user manual
* {% ghi 3343 %} Fix errors in the javadoc for Range

## Note About JDK 15

See the note in the 1.10.1 release notes about the use of JDK 15 or later, as
the information pertaining to the use of the CMS garbage collector remains
applicable to all 1.10 releases.

## Useful Links

* [All Changes since 1.10.3][all-changes]
* [All tickets related to this release][milestone]


[milestone]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/milestone/11
[all-changes]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/compare/rel/1.10.3...apache:rel/1.10.4
[contact]: {{ site.baseurl }}/contact-us
[VFS683]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/projects/VFS/issues/VFS-683
