---
title: Apache Accumulo 2.1.1
sortableversion: '02.01.01'
LTM: true
archived: true
---
## About

Apache Accumulo 2.1.1 is a patch release of the 2.1 LTM line. It contains
many bug fixes and minor enhancements, including a critical fix. This version
supersedes 2.1.0. Users upgrading to 2.1 should upgrade directly to this
version instead of 2.1.0.

Included here are some highlights of the most interesting bugs and features
fixed in 2.1.1. Several trivial bugs were also fixed that related to the
presentation of information on the monitor, or to avoid spammy/excessive
logging, but are too numerous to list here. For the full set of bug fixes,
please see the commit history or issue tracker.

NOTE: This 2.1 release also includes any applicable bug fixes and improvements
that occurred in 1.10.3 and earlier.

### Critical Fixes

* [CVE-2023-34340] Fixed a critical issue that improperly allowed a user under
  some conditions to authenticate to Accumulo using an invalid password.

### Notable Improvements

Improvements that add capabilities:

* {% ghi 3180 %} Enable users to provide per-volume Hadoop Filesystem
  configuration overrides via the Accumulo configuration. Hadoop Filesystem
  objects are configured by the standard Hadoop mechanisms (default
  configuration, core-site.xml, hdfs-site.xml, etc.), but these configuration
  files don't allow for the same property to be specified with different values
  for different namespaces. This change allows users to specify different
  property values for different Accumulo volumes, which will be applied to the
  Hadoop Filesystem object created for each Accumulo volume
* {% ghi 1169 %}, {% ghi 3142 %} Add configuration option for users to select
  how the last location field is used, so users have better control over
  initial assignments on restarts
* {% ghi 3400 %} Inject environment injected into ContextClassLoaderFactory SPI
  so implementations can read and make use of Accumulo's own configuration

Improvements that affect performance:

* {% ghi 3175 %} Reset number of locks in SynchronousLoadingBlockCache from
  2017 back to 5003, the value that it was in 1.10. {% ghi 3226%} Also,
  modified the lock to be fair, which allows the different scan threads in the
  server to make progress in a more fair manner when they need to load a block
  into the cache
* {% ghi 3077 %}, {% ghi 3079 %}, {% ghi 3083 %}, {% ghi 3123 %} Avoid filling
  OS page cache by calling `setDropBehind` on the FS data stream when
  performing likely one-time file accesses, as with WAL and compaction input
  and output files. This should allow files that might benefit more from
  caching to stay in the cache longer. {% ghi 3083 %} and {% ghi 3123 %}
  introduces new properties, table.compaction.major.output.drop.cache and
  table.compaction.minor.output.drop.cache, for dropping pages from the OS page
  cache for compaction output files. These changes will only have an impact on
  HDFS FileSystem implementations and operating systems that support the
  underlying OS system call. See associated issue, [HDFS-16864], that will
  improve the underlying implementation when resolved.

Improvements that help with administration:

* {% ghi 3445 %} Add emergency maintenance utility to edit properties in
  ZooKeeper while the Accumulo cluster is shut down
* {% ghi 3118 %} Added option to the `admin zoo-info-viewer` command to dump
  the ACLs on ZooKeeper nodes. This information can be used to fix znodes with
  incorrect ACLs during the upgrade process

Other notable changes:

* {% ghi 3126 %} Remove unintentionally bundled htrace4 from our packaging;
  users will need to provide that for themselves if they require it on their
  classpath
* {% ghi 3436 %} Deprecate gc.trash.ignore property. The trash can be
  customized within Hadoop if one wishes to ignore it, or configure it to be
  ignored for only specific files (and this has been tested with recent
  versions of Hadoop); In version 3.0, this property will be removed, and it
  will no longer be possible to ignore the trash by changing this property

### Notable Bug Fixes

* {% ghi 3134 %} Fixed Thrift issues due to incorrect setting of maxMessageSize
* {% ghi 3144 %}, {% ghi 3150 %}, {% ghi 3164 %} Fixed bugs in ScanServer that
  prevented a tablet from being scanned when some transient failures occurred
* {% ghi 3346 %}, {% ghi 3366 %} Fixed tablet metadata verification task so it
  doesn't unintentionally cause the server to halt
* {% ghi 3479 %} Fixed issue preventing servers from shutting down because they
  were still receiving assignments
* {% ghi 3492 %} Fixed a bug where bulk imports could cause compactions to hang

## Upgrading

View the [Upgrading Accumulo documentation][upgrade] for guidance.

## Useful Links

* [All tickets related to this release][milestone]

This release also includes bug fixes from 1.10.3, which was released after
2.1.0, and the javadoc fix and MapFile removal changes ({% ghi 3343 %} and
{% ghi 3391 %}) from 1.10.4.


[upgrade]: /docs/2.x/administration/upgrading
[milestone]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/milestone/15
[HDFS-16864]: https://issues.apache.org/jira/browse/HDFS-16864
[CVE-2023-34340]: https://www.cve.org/CVERecord?id=CVE-2023-34340
