---
title: Apache Accumulo 3.0.0
sortableversion: '03.00.00-final'
draft: true
---

Apache Accumulo 3.0.0 contains significant changes from 2.1 and earlier versions. 

## Notable Changes

### Arguments to server processes were removed in favor of configuration properties

The server process arguments (`-a`, `-g`, `-q`, etc.) were removed in {% ghi 3192 %}
in favor of configuration properties that can be specified in the Accumulo configuration
files or supplied on a per-process basis using the `-o` argument.

### Support for the replication feature has been removed

The replication feature was marked as deprecated in 2.0.0 and was removed in {% ghi 3080 %}.
TODO - Need to discuss what happens to the replication table

### BulkImport v1 was removed

BulkImport v1 was removed in 3.0.0 ({% ghi 3313 %}). Bulk Import v1 users should reference the
2.0.0 [bulk import release notes].

### FileSystem monitor will no longer stop the TabletServer

In {% ghi 1328 %} the `tserver.monitor.fs` property has been marked as deprecated
and the background thread in the TabletServer was modified to *not* halt the TabletServer
when one of the local disks becomes read-only.

### GarbageCollectionLogger renamed to LowMemoryDetector, is no longer passive

The GarbageCollectionLogger would run in a Thread in the server components every 5 seconds
and print a message to the log when the amount of free memory was less than 5% of the heap.
{% ghi 3161 %} renamed the class to LowMemoryDetector, adds new properties for the threshold,
interval, and passivity. When operating in a passive mode, the LowMemoryDetector will log a
message just like its predecessor. See the new GENERAL_LOW_MEM_*_PROTECTION properties for a
description of the behavior change when these properties are enabled. {% ghi 3288 %} added a
new metric, accumulo.detected.low.memory, that reports a value of 1 when the server is low on
memory.

### Other Notable Changes

* {% ghi 3189 %} Standardized server lock data structure in ZooKeeper
* {% ghi 3115 %}, {% ghi 3116 %}, {% ghi 3117 %} Removed deprecated TabletBalancer, Constraint, and other APIs.
* {% ghi 3114 %} The VolumeChooser API, deprecated in 2.1.0 in favor of an SPI implementation, was removed.
* {% ghi 3111 %} The CompactionStrategy class, deprecated in favor of CompactionSelector and
  CompactionConfigurer, was removed.
* {% ghi 3105 %} Removed deprecated properties
* {% ghi 3074 %} The ClientConfiguration class, deprecated in 2.0.0, was removed.
* {% ghi 3073 %} The Connector and Instance client classes, deprecated in 2.0.0, were removed.
* {% ghi 2443 %} The MapReduce APIs, deprecated in 2.0.0, were removed.

where applicable. Removed tserver TLevel logging class.
* {% jira ACCUMULO-1787 %} - Two tier compaction strategy.  Support compacting small files with snappy and large files with gzip.

## Upgrading

View the [Upgrading Accumulo documentation][upgrade] for guidance.


[#634]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/issues/634
[upgrade]: /docs/2.x/administration/upgrading
[website-repo]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo-website
[bulk import release notes]: https://accumulo.apache.org/release/accumulo-2.0.0/#new-bulk-import-api
