---
title: Apache Accumulo 2.1.3
sortableversion: '02.01.03'
draft: true
LTM: true
---
## About

Apache Accumulo 2.1.3 is a patch release of the 2.1 LTM line. It contains bug
fixes and minor enhancements. This version supersedes 2.1.2. Users upgrading to
2.1 should upgrade directly to this version instead of 2.1.2.

Included here are some highlights of the most interesting bugs fixed and
features added in 2.1.3. For the full set of changes, please see the commit
history or issue tracker.

### Notable Improvements

Improvements that affect performance:

* {% ghi 3722 %} Adds properties {% plink general.file.name.allocation.batch.size.min %} and
  {% plink general.file.name.allocation.batch.size.max%} that allow the batch size
  for unique filename allocation in ZooKeeper to be configurable. In a system that requires large numbers
  of unique names, larger batch sizes can reduce ZooKeeper contention because more file names can be
  reserved with a single ZooKeeper call.
* {% ghi 3733 %} Avoid creating server side threads when failed writes are cancelled. In versions 2.1.2
  and earlier, the thrift close call creates a new thread to cancel the thrift session. With 2.1.3, an
  new thrift method is available to test if a session is reserved and deletes it if it is not reserved
  without creating an additional thread.  If the new method is not available it falls back to the previous
  close method to preserve interoperability between 2.x versions.
* {% ghi 3738 %} Adds parameter {% plink gc.remove.in.use.candidates %}, that enables the Garbage Collector
  to remove candidates that have active tablet file references. This is expected to increase the speed of
  subsequent GC Runs.
* {% ghi 3756 %} Added new RPC named cancelUpdate that reduces the amount of threads waiting to close failed
  batch write sessions.
* {% ghi 4682 %} Changed the ScanServer ref format to sort by UUID to increase performance
* {% ghi 4536 %} Created ScanServerSelector that tries to use scan servers on the same host to leverage
  shared off-heap-cache usage.
* {% ghi 4544 %} Made scan servers refresh cached list of tablet files before expiration. Added new property
  {% plink sserver.cache.metadata.refresh.percent %} to control when refresh happens.
* {% ghi 3813 %} Made compactors use cached address for compaction coordinator when getting next compaction job.
  This lowers load on zookeeper when running many compactors.
* {% ghi 3706 %} Avoid unnescessary copying of hadoop config that was causing Accumulo GC slowdown. 

### Notable Bug Fixes

* {% ghi 3721 %} Fixes issue with writes happening in a retry after batch writer was closed. This
  strengthens metadata consistency.
* {% ghi 3749 %} Fixes issue where deleting a compaction pool with running compactions would
  leave the tserver in a bad state.
* {% ghi 3748 %} Fixes bug where wal could remained locked if an exception occurred.
* {% ghi 3747 %} Adds validation to prevent possible deadlock when acquiring wal locks.
* {% ghi 3737 %} Use custom Transport to set Transport message and frame size. This fixes
  a bug where Accumulo would not change the max message size allowed.
* {% ghi #608 %}, {% ghi 3755 %} Add validation to GC that checks that the scanner used by GC to determine
  candidates for deletion returned a complete row as a mitigation for {% ghi #608 %} where
  garbage collector removes file that are referenced and in-use.
* {% ghi 3744 %} Fixed bug regarding improperly created GCRun logger name.
* {% ghi 3737 %} Adds a custom Transport Factory to set transport message and frame size to avoid infinite loops
  as described in {% ghi 3731 %}.
* {% ghi 3750 %} Fixed issue when deleting a compaction thread pool would leave tablets in a bad state.
* {% ghi 4117 %} Fixed a bug in compaction properties where the replacement `maxOpen` property was being
  ignored in favor of the deprecated `open.max` property.
* {% ghi 4681 %} Stopped listing all compactors in each compactor to reduce load on Zookeeper.
* {% ghi 4309 %} Optimized logic for getting a random TabletServer connection which improved Shell startup times.
* {% ghi 3873 %} Increase Thrift max message size defaults which avoids errors with large key values.  Added
  property {% plink rpc.message.size.max %}.  Removed experimental properties `sserver.server.message.size.max`,
  `compactor.message.size.max`,`compaction.coordinator.message.size.max`.
* {% ghi 3966 %} Changed the default value of the the property {% plink table.majc.compaction.strategy %}
  to empty string to fix a compatibility bug with old and new compaction plugins.
* {% ghi 4554 %}  Fixed a race condtion that could cause duplicate compactions to run.  While harmless in
  terms of data, the duplicate compactions could waste significant compute resources.
* {% ghi 4127 %} Updated new compaction plugins to honor {% plink table.file.max %} property.  Implemented
  a much more efficient algorithm than old compaction plugins had for this property.
* {% ghi 4485 %} Interrupt compactions on tablet unload.  This prevents long running compactions from blocking
  tablet migration.
* {% ghi 3512 %} Fixed issue with improperly cleaned up scans preventing metadata tablet unload.
* {% ghi 4456 %} Setting empty property value no longer deletes property
* {% ghi 4000 %} Fixed bug that could cause bulk import to lose files when errors happened in the tablet server.
* {% ghi 4462 %} Fixed bug that prevented listing Fate operations in some situations.
* {% ghi 4573 %} Modified CredentialProviderToken to no longer store password in serialized form.

### Improvements that help with administration:

* {% ghi 3697 %} Allow `ACCUMULO_JAVA_PREFIX` option in `accumulo-env.sh` so it can be passed
  as an array. This simplifies passing user options when starting Accumulo processes, for example
  `numactl` parameters.
* {% ghi 3751 %} Added property {% plink rpc.backlog %} to configure backlog size for
  Thrift server sockets.
* {% ghi 3745 %} Adds prefix to gc deletion log messages. This makes it easier to isolate the deletion
  actions of the garbage collector for analysis.
* {% ghi 3724 %} Adds logging of transactions when metadata and in-memory differences are detected.
* {% ghi 3725 %} Changed the gc batch size from bytes to memory percentage value.  Modified default value of
  property {% plink gc.candidate.batch.size %}.
* {% ghi 3684 %} Consolidated y/n prompts in the shell. Users can now exit out of multi-table delete operations
  without accepting prompts for each one.
* {% ghi 3726 %} Adjusted reauthentication messages from the shell to assist with troubleshooting.
* {% ghi 4461 %}, {% ghi 4522 %}, {% ghi 4577 %} Added various metrics for scan servers to determine scan reservations and usage
* {% ghi 4492 %} Emit new metrics for the caches in tablet and scan servers.
* {% ghi 4459 %} Added the ability to specify multiple MeterRegistryFactorys to allow for various metric exporters
  to be used at the same time.  Updated documentation on the property {% plink general.micrometer.factory %}
* {% ghi 4622 %} Added compactor busy and server idle metrics {% ghi 4740 %} to allow for proper scale-in operations.
  Added property {% plink general.metrics.process.idle %} to configure idle time for metrics.
* {% ghi 3927 %} Added a new JSON property type that validates the value is json.  Updated the properties
  {% plink monitor.resources.external %} and {% plink tserver.compaction.major.service.meta.planner.opts.executors %} to use this new type.
* {% ghi 4223 %} Added properties {% plink compactor.wait.time.job.min %} and {% plink compactor.wait.time.job.max %} to
  control the min and max times compactors use when polling for work.
* {% ghi 3998 %} Added instance name tag to metrics.  This is useful for the case when metrics from multiple Accumulo instances
  are flowing into a single metrics system.
* {% ghi 4763 %} Improved the accumulo-cluster script and cluster.yaml file for the use case of starting and stopping specific
  groups of compactors and scan servers.
* {% ghi 4487 %} Scan server properties can now be set in the shell.

## Upgrading

View the [Upgrading Accumulo documentation][upgrade] for guidance.

## Useful Links

* [All tickets related to this release][milestone]

This release also contains bug fixes from 1.10.4, which was released after 2.1.2.


[upgrade]: /docs/2.x/administration/upgrading
[milestone]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/milestone/17
