---
title: Apache Accumulo 2.1.3
sortableversion: '02.01.03'
LTM: true
---
## About

Apache Accumulo 2.1.3 is a patch release of the 2.1 LTM line. It contains bug
fixes and minor enhancements. This version supersedes 2.1.2. Users upgrading to
2.1 should upgrade directly to this version instead of 2.1.2.

## Notable Changes

The full set of changes are too numerous to be useful here. Below are some highlights of the most
significant bug fixes and features added in 2.1.3. For the full set of changes, please see the
commit history or issue tracker milestone links below.

### Configurable Improvements

Many notable improvements have been added that include a means for users to configure them via new
or existing properties to improve system performance or behavior. These include:

* {% ghi 3722 %} Adds properties {% plink general.file.name.allocation.batch.size.min %} and
  {% plink general.file.name.allocation.batch.size.max%} that allow the batch size for unique
  filename allocation in ZooKeeper to be configurable. In a system that requires large numbers of
  unique names, larger batch sizes can reduce ZooKeeper contention because more file names can be
  reserved with a single ZooKeeper call.
* {% ghi 3738 %} Adds an experimental property, {% plink gc.remove.in.use.candidates %}, that
  enables the Garbage Collector to remove candidates that have active tablet file references, with
  the expectation that a new deletion candidate for the file will reappear when the reference is no
  longer in use. This is expected to speed up subsequent GC runs by skipping checks for candidates
  that were previously known to still be in use. This experimental property defaults to `false`, but
  is expected to become the default behavior in future releases.
* {% ghi 4544 %} Made scan servers refresh their cached list of tablet files before expiration using
  a new property, {% plink sserver.cache.metadata.refresh.percent %}, to control when the refresh
  happens.
* {% ghi 4536 %} Created a ScanServerSelector implementation available to users using the
  `scan.server.selector.impl` client property called
  `org.apache.accumulo.core.spi.scan.ConfigurableScanServerHostSelector` that tries to use scan
  servers on the same host to leverage shared off-heap-cache usage.
* {% ghi 3737 %}, {% ghi 3783 %} Addressed some common transport layer errors about max message
  sizes being exceeded. The max message size configuration was greatly simplified by removing any
  experimental max message size properties, and deprecating the other non-experimental ones, all in
  favor of a new common single property, {% plink rpc.message.size.max %}, for all server types. The
  default value is now very large to avoid users experiencing errors, but can be constrained by
  setting a smaller value. If the new property is set, it overrides any of the deprecated properties
  values that might be set. However, if it is not set, the deprecated property values may still be
  in effect. It is recommended that users remove the use of the deprecated properties, so that their
  servers will use the new property, whose default value should be sufficient for most users. The
  deprecated properties will be removed in version 3.1. A related bug was also fixed where the
  configured max message size was not being used in some cases.
* {% ghi 3751 %} Added property {% plink rpc.backlog %} to configure backlog size for Thrift server
  sockets.
* {% ghi 4468 %} GrepIterator received several new options to control which portions of the Key
  and/or Value are matched. The default behavior preserves the previous behavior of matching
  anywhere except in the ColumnVisibility. A related change was made to the shell's `grep` command,
  which uses this iterator internally, so that it will also match on ColumnVisibility, which it
  didn't do before. This means that any existing uses of the GrepIterator will not see any change in
  behavior. However, users should be aware that any scripted uses of the shell's `grep` command may
  see additional results that were not previously shown if the matched term is found only in the
  ColumnVisibility.
* {% ghi 4348 %} When using the generate-splits utility, detect non-printable characters and throw
  an error if base64 encoding option was not used; this is a change from the previous behavior which
  would have attempted to use a custom hex-encoding for non-printable characters, which could be
  unreliable and hide binary data in split points without the user noticing; users are advised to
  always use the base64 option whenever there is a chance of a non-printable character appearing in
  a split point
* {% ghi 4223 %} Added properties {% plink compactor.wait.time.job.min %} and
  {% plink compactor.wait.time.job.max %} to control compactor polling times.
* {% ghi 3725 %} Changed the gc batch size option, {% plink gc.candidate.batch.size %}, to support
  memory percentages in addition to fixed memory sizes, and updated the default value accordingly.

Some notable performance-related improvements may affect the behavior of the system in noticeable
ways, but are not directly configurable by the user. These include:

* {% ghi 4309 %} Optimized the logic for getting a random TabletServer connection which
  substantially improved Shell startup times, as well as startup times of any other Accumulo client.
* {% ghi 3813 %} Reduced the load on ZooKeeper when running many compactors.
* {% ghi 4709 %} Modified Manager balancer code such that the root, metadata, and user tables will
  be balanced separately, and in that order. For example, balancing for user tables will not occur
  while the metadata table is unbalanced.
* {% ghi 4682 %} Changed the ScanServer file reference format in the metadata table to sort by UUID
  to increase performance.

### Notable Bug Fixes

* {% ghi 4283 %} Fixed a bug with client side iterators that prevented them from accessing the
  plugin environment.
* {% ghi 3721 %} Fixed an issue with writes happening in a retry after batch writer was closed. This
  strengthens metadata consistency.
* {% ghi 3749 %}, {% ghi 3750 %} Fixed an issue where deleting a compaction pool with running
  compactions would leave the tserver in a bad state.
* {% ghi 3748 %} Fixed a bug where a wal could remain locked if an exception occurred.
* {% ghi 608 %}, {% ghi 3755 %} Add validation to GC that checks that the scanner used by GC to
  determine candidates for deletion returned a complete row as a mitigation for {% ghi 608 %} which
  observed referenced files being removed when they are still in use.
* {% ghi 3744 %} Fixed a bug regarding improperly created GCRun logger name.
* {% ghi 3737 %} Adds a custom Transport Factory to set transport message and frame size to avoid
  infinite loops as described in {% ghi 3731 %}.
* {% ghi 4117 %} Fixed a bug in compaction properties where the replacement `maxOpen` property was
  being ignored in favor of the deprecated `open.max` property.
* {% ghi 4681 %} Stopped listing all compactors in each compactor to reduce load on Zookeeper.
* {% ghi 3966 %} Changed the default value of the property
  {% plink table.majc.compaction.strategy %} to an empty string to fix a compatibility bug with old
  and new compaction plugins.
* {% ghi 4554 %} Fixed a race condition that could cause duplicate compactions to run. While
  harmless in terms of data, the duplicate compactions could waste significant compute resources.
* {% ghi 4127 %} Updated new compaction plugins to honor {% plink table.file.max %} property using a
  much more efficient algorithm than old compaction plugins had for this property.
* {% ghi 4485 %} Interrupt compactions on tablet unload. This prevents long-running compactions from
  blocking tablet migration.
* {% ghi 3512 %} Fixed an issue with improperly cleaned up scans preventing metadata tablet unload.
* {% ghi 4456 %} Fixed an issue where setting an empty property value deleted the property.
* {% ghi 4000 %} Fixed a bug that could cause bulk import to lose files when errors happened in the
  tablet server.
* {% ghi 4462 %} Fixed bug that prevented listing Fate operations in some situations.
* {% ghi 4573 %} Modified CredentialProviderToken serialization so that it no longer stores the
  resolved password in serialized form if the user were to serialize it.
* {% ghi 4684 %} Fixed an issue that was causing table creation to get progressively slower when
  creating a lot of tables.

### Metrics Improvements

* {% ghi 4461 %}, {% ghi 4522 %}, {% ghi 4577 %}, {% ghi 4492 %}, {% ghi 4740 %}, {% ghi 4470 %}
  Added new metrics. See {% jlink org.apache.accumulo.core.metrics.MetricsProducer %} for a full
  list.
* {% ghi 4459 %} Added the ability to multiple instances of `MeterRegistryFactory` to export metrics
  to several destinations at the same time. See {% plink general.micrometer.factory %}
* {% ghi 4622 %}, {% ghi 4716 %} Added metric to report when a server is idle or busy and added a
  property, {% plink general.metrics.process.idle %}, to make the threshold configurable.
* {% ghi 3998 %} Added instance name tag to metrics

### Other Improvements

* {% ghi 4532 %} Add an option, `timeToWaitForScanServers`, to the `ConfigurableScanServerSelector`
  implementation of the `scan.server.selector.impl` client property to cause scans to wait for scan
  servers to be online before scanning
* {% ghi 3697 %} Support and document `ACCUMULO_JAVA_PREFIX` option in `accumulo-env.sh` as either
  an array or as a scalar, to better support things like `numactl` in calling scripts.
* {% ghi 3745 %} Adds a prefix to gc deletion log messages to it easier to isolate the deletion
  actions of the garbage collector for analysis.
* {% ghi 3684 %} Consolidated y/n prompts in the shell. Users can now exit out of multi-table delete
  operations without accepting prompts for each one.
* {% ghi 3726 %} Adjusted reauthentication messages from the shell to assist with troubleshooting.
* {% ghi 3927 %} Added validation of JSON property types
* {% ghi 4763 %} Improved the accumulo-cluster script and cluster.yaml file for the use case of
  starting and stopping specific groups of compactors and scan servers.
* {% ghi 4487 %} Scan server properties can now be set in the system configuration in ZooKeeper (via
  the API or the shell)
* {% ghi 4768 %} Better thread names to make it easier to correlate thread dumps with their related
  source code
* {% ghi 4558 %} Added a log message in the Manager when it has been waiting over 15 minutes for a
  tablet to unload.
* {% ghi 4495 %} Added `accumulo admin serviceStatus` command to quickly get system process status
  from the command line.


## Requirements

Accumulo 2.1.3 now requires JDK 17 to build, but still supports Java 11 runtime.

## Upgrading

View the [Upgrading Accumulo documentation][upgrade] for guidance.

## Useful Links

* [All Changes since 2.1.2][all-changes]
* [All tickets related to this release][milestone]

This release also contains bug fixes from 1.10.4, which was released after 2.1.2.


[upgrade]: /docs/2.x/administration/upgrading
[milestone]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/milestone/17
[all-changes]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/compare/rel/2.1.2...apache:rel/2.1.3
