---
title: Apache Accumulo 2.1.4
sortableversion: '02.01.04'
LTM: true
---
## About

Apache Accumulo 2.1.4 is a patch release of the 2.1 LTM line. It contains bug
fixes and minor enhancements. This version supersedes earlier 2.1 releases
and users upgrading to 2.1 should upgrade directly to this version instead of
any prior 2.1 release.

## Notable Changes

* {% ghi 5446 %} Many dependencies were updated, to include protobuf-java which
  was updated from 3.22.0 to 3.25.6 due to a vulnerability. Users may run into
  a runtime exception added in https://github.com/protocolbuffers/protobuf/pull/20084
  when using old generated Protobuf files. Users may need to address any compatibility issues
  with this version of protobuf-java, if their code also makes use of this library.
* {% ghi 5073 %} {% ghi 5034 %} Added `accumulo check-accumulo-properties` command that can be
  run before an instance is initialized to check the properties file.
* {% ghi 5193 %} Added `accumulo admin signalShutdown` command to signal the server
  process to initiate a graceful shutdown. Compactors will finish the major compaction
  that they are currently working on, then will exit. Scan Servers will return a busy
  signal to all clients for new scan requests, and will shutdown when all in-progress
  scans have closed. Tablet Servers will signal the Manager that they are shutting down,
  which should prevent assignment of tablets to that server, then they will unload all
  tablets and shut down. The Monitor, Manager, GarbageCollector, and CompactionCoordinator
  will shut down also. The last step in the shutdown process for all servers is to remove
  their lock in ZooKeeper.
* {% ghi 5438 %} Added `accumulo upgrade --prepare` command which should be used after
  shutting down an instance in preparation for an upgrade. This will check that no Fate
  transactions exist, delete any ZooKeeper locks for server processes, and prohibit any
  server processes from being started.
* {% ghi 4898 %} New way to compute bulk load plans.  This adds two new APIs for computing
  which tablets should load a rfile.  APIs were also added to serialize, deserialize, and
  merge load plans.  These primitives provide building blocks for doing distributed
  computation of load plans over a set of rfiles.
* {% ghi 5169 %} {% ghi 5170 %} The TabletServer will halt itself when a walog write or
  minc failure occurs and the TabletServer lock is not held in ZooKeeper.
* {% ghi 5145 %} {% ghi 5132 %} The Manager and TabletServer processes now have a background
  thread that can be enabled via the property `general.server.lock.verification.interval` to
  validate that the process is holding the lock in ZooKeeper. The existing mechanism of relying
  on a Watcher to notify the process that the lock has been lost can be a problem due to the
  fact that there is a single thread in the ZooKeeper client that fires Watcher events. If the
  thread is currently waiting on a hung Watcher, then subsequent Watcher events will not fire
  and could leave the server running without a lock.
* {% ghi 5174 %} {% ghi 5035 %} {% ghi 5502 %} {% ghi 5439 %} Many improvements
  to the `accumulo-cluster` and `accumulo-service` scripts have been backported
  from the main branch. This includes syntax changes. Users should review the
  scripts for changes that may effect them. Changes were made to the default
  `conf/accumulo-env.sh` file to support the changes in those scripts, so
  users should pay particular attention to the changes in that configuration file.
* {% ghi 5688 %} Added option to the Shell config command to show experimental properties.
* {% ghi 5689 %} Modified tokenizer in Shell to provide better support for json values.
* {% ghi 5726 %} Added new configuration properties for the Compactor to specify backoff
  behavior when compactions are failing consecutively. This would likely occur when there
  is a misconfiguration. This change also includes new logging in the Compactor and
  Coordinator, and new metrics being emitted by the Compactor.
* {% ghi 5729 %} Monitor now supports hosting behind a proxy by specifying a base directory.
* {% ghi 5779 %} Admin serviceStatus command now report summaries per resource group.
* {% ghi 5743 %} Added per table and per compaction erasure code configuration.
* {% ghi 5720 %} Added ability to configure compactions differently per tablet and per output path.

### Configuration Improvements

* {% ghi 4723 %} {% ghi 5239 %} Changes to properties `tserver.session.idle.max` and
  `tserver.session.update.idle.max` no longer require a TabletServer restart.
* {% ghi 5397 %} {% ghi 5399 %} Added property `gc.threads.delete.wal` to control the number of threads to use for
  deleting write-ahead logs and recovery files.
* {% ghi 5341 %} Created an optimization in Bulk Import v2 to enable faster processing of bulk import files
  when loading into a sparse set of tablets in a large table. See new table property `table.bulk.metadata.skip.distance`.
* {% ghi 5628 %} {% ghi 5627 %} Made the number of threads the manager uses to
  scan the metadata to find tablets that need attention configurable.  This
  scan uses iterators that can have a large set of options, added a property to
  optionally compress these iterator options.
* {% ghi 5633 %} Added a new property for server processes advertise address
  allowing different bind and advertise addresses.
* {% ghi 5638 %} Added a new property to disable assignment and balancing when
  the number of tserver is below the configured value. Disabled by default.
* {% ghi 5632 %} Improved handling fixed properties that require a server restart.


### Notable Bug Fixes

* {% ghi 5033 %} {% ghi 5038 %} Group names in cluster.yaml must conform to bash variable name rules
  or an error will be raised when parsing the cluster.yaml file.
* {% ghi 5221 %} The shell will now print to stdout, instead of stderr, when there is no terminal set. This
  will help with piping the output of the shell to other commands such as grep.
* {% ghi 5396 %} Modified `accumulo-cluster` to stop GC and ScanServer processes first when stopping the
  cluster. These processes write to the metadata table, which can lead to slower shutdown times.
* {% ghi 4868 %} {% ghi 4871 %} Fixed listscans so that it shows a scan session id for batch scans instead
  of always showing zero.
* {% ghi 4845 %} InstanceOperations.getActiveCompaction(String) did not handle the address of a
  Compactor process being passed in the parameter. This has been fixed.
* {% ghi 5445 %} The `cf` and `cq` options for the DeleteMany and Grep shell commands were not being
  handled properly.
* {% ghi 5570 %} Fixed race condition where an external compaction would be forgotten with its files
  indefinitely reserved for a compaction that is no longer running.  This condition would continue until
  the tablet server hosting the tablet was restarted.
* {% ghi 5543 %} {% ghi 5552 %} {% ghi 5543 %} Fixed multiple bugs that could destabilize external compactions.
* {% ghi 5707 %} Fixes a bug where an external compaction would not start.

### Metrics Improvements

* {% ghi 4756 %} {% ghi 4757 %} {% ghi 4840 %} Added metric to indicate how many zombie scan threads are running
  in the TabletServer. 
* {% ghi 5011 %} Added queue tag to metrics emitted from the External Compactor processes.
* {% ghi 5025 %} {% ghi 4922 %} Added property `general.micrometer.log.metrics` to enable metrics on
  the log4j2 or logback logging frameworks. Disabled by default.

### Other Improvements

* {% ghi 4755 %} {% ghi 5220 %} Fixed the help flag for the admin command so that it works for subcommands.
* {% ghi 4819 %} Tablets that are closing will no longer wait on scans to complete. Instead they
  will try to interrupt the scan and then continue closing the tablet so that it can be migrated.
  It's possible that a zombie scan thread could remain in the TabletServer, if the scan thread is
  blocked on something and does not die. Users should monitor the new zombie scan metric mentioned
  in the section above.
* {% ghi 4867 %} Lowered the memory burden of listing a large number of External Compactors in the Monitor.
* {% ghi 5026 %} Modified CompactionJobPrioritizer.createPriority to give a higher priority to tablets that
  have more files than the maximum number of files per tablet.
* {% ghi 5400 %} Modified AESCryptoService to prevent the creation of overlapping streams.

### Semver violations

The following are changes since 2.1.3 that violate semver. Writing code that
uses these new methods will make it incompatible with 2.1.3 and earlier.

| Class | Changes |
| ----- | ------- |
| o.a.a.core.client.admin.InstanceOperations | added `Set<String> getCompactors()` |
| o.a.a.core.client.admin.compaction.CompactionConfigurer.InitParameters | added `TabletId getTabletId()` and `URI getOutputFile()` |
| o.a.a.core.client.rfile.RFile.WriterOptions | added `WriterOptions withSplitResolver(LoadPlan.SplitResolver splitResolver)` |
| o.a.a.core.data.LoadPlan | added `String toJson()`, `LoadPlan fromJson(String json)`, `LoadPlan compute(...)`, `interface SplitResolver` |
| o.a.a.core.data.TabletId | added `of(TableId tableId, String endRow, String prevEndRow)` and also added `Text` and `byte[]` versions |
| o.a.a.core.iterators.IteratorEnvironment | removed default methods that threw UnsupportedOperationException |
| o.a.a.core.spi.balancer.DoNothingBalancer | This entire class was added |
| o.a.a.core.spi.balancer.TabletBalancer.BalanceParameters | added `String partitionName()`, `Map<String,TableId> getTablesToBalance()` |
| o.a.a.core.spi.compaction.CompactionPlanner.PlanningParameters | added `NamespaceId getNamespaceId()` and `TabletId getTabletId()` |
| o.a.a.core.spi.compaction.DefaultCompactionPlanner | added a new configuration option `tserver.compaction.major.service.<service>.opts.lowestRatio` |

## Requirements

Accumulo 2.1.4 now requires JDK 17 to build, but still supports Java 11 runtime.

## Upgrading

View the [Upgrading Accumulo documentation][upgrade] for guidance.

## Useful Links

* [All Changes since 2.1.3][all-changes]
* [All tickets related to this release][milestone]


[upgrade]: /docs/2.x/administration/upgrading
[milestone]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/milestone/21
[all-changes]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/compare/rel/2.1.3...apache:rel/2.1.4
