---
title: Apache Accumulo 2.1.5
sortableversion: '02.01.05'
LTM: true
draft: true
---
## About

Apache Accumulo 2.1.5 is a patch release of the 2.1 LTM line. It contains bug
fixes and minor enhancements. This version supersedes earlier 2.1 releases
and users upgrading to 2.1 should upgrade directly to this version instead of
any prior 2.1 release.

## Notable Changes

{% ghi 6160 %} Accumulo 2.1.5 requires JDK 21 to build. For runtime the minimum
required JDK version is 11.

{% ghi 6156 %} Scan Servers can now be used to scan offline tables.

{% ghi 6040 %} {% ghi 6075 %} Prior to 2.1.5 iterators that had the same priority would execute
in a non-deterministic order. In 2.1.5 the iterators with the same priority will
execute in the lexicographical order of the name property.

{% 6146 %} Added Scan Server property that allows user to control which tables
are allowed to be used with Scan Servers.

{% 5998 %} Added property that allows user to specify whether or not RFiles should
be shuffled when reading from a Tablet to try and reduce the number of scan threads
that are waiting on the same file to opened.

### Configuration Improvements

### Notable Bug Fixes

{% ghi 6148 %} Fixed shell commands `grep` and `deletemany` to honor the context
classloader option.

{% ghi 5960 %} Fixed a bug when `table.file.ec` property set to `inherit`.

{% ghi 6029 %} Modified Monitor tables to support 'all' size option.

{% ghi 5989 %} Adds a new log message in the Compaction Coordinator that will
periodically log summary information to include number of compactions running for
each table, the number of compactor, queued compactions (max 100), and running compactions
for each compaction queue.

{% ghi 5856 %} Modified Shell to stop removing backslash characters.

{% ghi 5963 %} Enable reloading of the `general.server.iter.opts.compression`
property so that changes don't require process restart.

{% ghi 5888 %} Fail the `accumulo upgrade --prepare` command when table properties
are set in the site configuration.

### Metrics Improvements

### Other Improvements

{% ghi 6051 %} `shell fate --delete` command will remove the fate transaction id
from the table\_locks directory in ZooKeeper to match the delete behavior of the
`admin fate --delete` command.

{% ghi 6064 %} Updated log4j dependency to version 2.25.3.

{% ghi 6067 %} Fixed `accumulo-cluster prune` bug with Scan Servers.

{% ghi 5983 %} Added `-v` option to shell `getsplits` command to print split
information that matches the supplied obfuscated extent.

{% ghi 5928 %} Converted Scan Servers to use Rendezvous hashing.

{% ghi 6014 %} Modified Fate to exit normally when Manager shut down instead
of failing the transaction.

{% ghi 6005 %} Added compaction output tmp file name to pre-compaction log message.

### Semver violations

## Requirements

Accumulo 2.1.5 now requires JDK 21 to build, but still supports Java 11 runtime.

## Upgrading

View the [Upgrading Accumulo documentation][upgrade] for guidance.

## Useful Links

* [All Changes since 2.1.4][all-changes]
* [All tickets related to this release][milestone]


[upgrade]: /docs/2.x/administration/upgrading
[milestone]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/milestone/22
[all-changes]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/compare/rel/2.1.4...apache:rel/2.1.5
