---
title: Apache Accumulo 2.1.6
sortableversion: '02.01.06'
LTM: true
---
## About

Apache Accumulo 2.1.6 is a patch release of the 2.1 LTM line. It contains bug
fixes and minor enhancements. This version supersedes earlier 2.1 releases
and users upgrading to 2.1 should upgrade directly to this version instead of
any prior 2.1 release.

## Important Security Fixes

* {% ghi 6478 %} - This version fixes a security flaw discovered in 2.1.4 and
  2.1.5 that allowed an authenticated user without system permissions to issue
  a graceful shutdown request to all Accumulo services. This action could lead
  to a denial of service on an Accumulo cluster. While this action logged a
  message that the action was denied, the request would have been honored by
  the server, and the server would have still shut down.

## Other Notable Changes

The following changes were made to improve performance and stability:

* {% ghi 6449 %} - The Garbage Collector was modified to use a server-side
  filter when processing candidate files to reduce memory usage.
* {% ghi 6470 %} - Some client code was updated to avoid some deadlocks that
  were possible if a user failed to close scanners before closing the
  AccumuloClient associated with them.
* {% ghi 6450 %}, {% ghi 6451 %} - Some data structures were changed throughout
  the code to set their expected size upon creation, in order to avoid
  resizing-related performance penalties.

## Requirements

This version requires JDK 21 to build, but still supports Java 11 runtime.

## Upgrading

View the [Upgrading Accumulo documentation][upgrade] for guidance.

## Useful Links

* [All Changes since 2.1.5][all-changes]
* [All tickets related to this release][milestone]


[upgrade]: /docs/2.x/administration/upgrading
[milestone]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/milestone/23
[all-changes]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/compare/rel/2.1.5...apache:rel/2.1.6
