---
title: Apache Accumulo 2.1.5
sortableversion: '02.01.05'
LTM: true
---
## About

Apache Accumulo 2.1.5 is a patch release of the 2.1 LTM line. It contains bug
fixes and minor enhancements. This version supersedes earlier 2.1 releases and
users upgrading to 2.1 should upgrade directly to this version instead of any
prior 2.1 release.

## Notable Changes

* {% ghi 5998 %} Added the `table.shuffle.sources` property that allows users
  to specify whether or not RFiles should be shuffled when reading from a
  Tablet to try and reduce the number of scan threads that are waiting on the
  same file to opened.
* {% ghi 6040 %} {% ghi 6075 %} Prior to 2.1.5 iterators that had the same
  priority would execute in a non-deterministic order. In 2.1.5 the iterators
  with the same priority will execute in the lexicographical order of the name
  property.
* {% ghi 6146 %} Added the `sserver.scan.allowed.tables.group.` Scan Server
  property prefix that allows user to control which tables are allowed to be
  used with Scan Servers.
* {% ghi 6156 %} Scan Servers can now be used to scan offline tables.
* {% ghi 6160 %} Accumulo 2.1.5 requires JDK 21 to build. For runtime the
  minimum required JDK version is 11.
* {% ghi 5982 %} Adds function for bulk V2 to compute load plans based on
  the minimum and maximum row present within the RFile when splits are not
  present.
* {% ghi 5974 %} Caches the log recovery decision to avoid redundant work
  in manager for log recovery.
* {% ghi 4096 %} Updates the createTable command to accept a property file on
  inital table creation via the `propFile` option.
* {% ghi 6416 %} Removes the `gc.remove.in.use.candidates` experimental
  feature flag property enabling the behavior added in {% ghi 3738 %}
* {% ghi 6219 %} Adds the property `manager.table.delete.optimization` which
  will skip the delete table optimization
* {% ghi 6049 %} Adds the property `manager.tservers.halt.grace.period` which
  defines the time duration before the Manager halts non-responsive tservers
  via lock removal.

### Notable Bug Fixes

* {% ghi 5856 %} Modified Shell to stop removing backslash characters.
* {% ghi 5888 %} Fail the `accumulo upgrade --prepare` command when table
  properties are set in the site configuration.
* {% ghi 5960 %} Fixed a bug when `table.file.ec` property set to `inherit`.
* {% ghi 5963 %} Enable reloading of the `general.server.iter.opts.compression`
  property so that changes don't require process restart.
* {% ghi 5989 %} Adds a new log message in the Compaction Coordinator that will
  periodically log summary information to include number of compactions running
  for each table, the number of compactor, queued compactions (max 100), and
  running compactions for each compaction queue.
* {% ghi 6148 %} Fixed shell commands `grep` and `deletemany` to honor the
  context classloader option.
* {% ghi 6397 %} Fixes monitor to always show the Dead Tablet Servers table
* {% ghi 6012 %} Changes createTable command options to simplify table
  property behavior.
* {% ghi 5937 %} Switched to using rendezvous hashing for scan server selection.
* {% ghi 6307 %} Fixes multiple problems with scan timeout.

### Other Improvements

* {% ghi 6029 %} Modified Monitor tables to support 'all' size option.
* {% ghi 5928 %} Converted Scan Servers to use Rendezvous hashing to reduce 
  churn during scan server selection when adding or removing scan servers.
* {% ghi 5983 %} Added `-v` option to shell `getsplits` command to print split
  information that matches the supplied obfuscated extent.
* {% ghi 6005 %} Added compaction output tmp file name to pre-compaction log
  message.
* {% ghi 6014 %} Modified Fate to exit normally when Manager shut down instead
  of failing the transaction.
* {% ghi 6051 %} `shell fate --delete` command will remove the fate transaction
  id from the table\_locks directory in ZooKeeper to match the delete behavior
  of the `admin fate --delete` command.
* {% ghi 6064 %} Updated log4j dependency to version 2.25.3.
* {% ghi 6067 %} Fixed `accumulo-cluster prune` bug with Scan Servers.
* {% ghi 6437 %} Adds --dry-run option to Merge command.
* {% ghi 6097 %} Only initializes vfs when deprecated prop is set.
* {% ghi 6051 %} Fixes the shell fate delete command.

## Requirements

Accumulo 2.1.5 now requires JDK 21 to build, but still supports Java 11 runtime.

## Upgrading

View the [Upgrading Accumulo documentation][upgrade] for guidance.

## Useful Links

* [All Changes since 2.1.4][all-changes]
* [All tickets related to this release][milestone]


[upgrade]: /docs/2.x/administration/upgrading
[milestone]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/milestone/22
[all-changes]: https://github.com/apache/accumulo/compare/rel/2.1.4...apache:rel/2.1.5
